Great concept, but needed a tighter ending. Communism is also being force fed.
This movie really had me intrigued, in the vein of others like The Circle, Snowpiercer, etc. It has a good cast, dark atmosphere, and a feeling of dread and despair throughout. It is great for futuristic sci-fi fans, horror fans, gore hounds, mystery lovers, or dystopian fans. Most people will be drawn in to the basic but puzzling premise.

However, as so many other films of late, it is obvious that the globalist message and communist manifesto messages are hard at work to plant themselves into your brain. In fact, early on, the man's cellmate even says to him, "What the hell are You? A communist?" I knew that more PC brainwashing was in store for us from there. Still, I will give the writers credit for showing some valid realities about world history and societies, which are somewhat inevitable in human existence thus far.

Even with the best intentioned communists, there WILL ALWAYS BE A HIERARCHY. Just as in Orwell's Animal Farm, SOME ANIMALS ARE MORE EQUAL THAN OTHERS. I guess that is the most disturbing fact that I worry about most people not comprehending-- they are returning to some lust for socialism, communism, cultural Marxism, and the belief that governments of man can solve all human problems and inequality, while stamping out and silencing the "evil dissenters". The problem is that humanity is infinitely flawed and corrupt, regardless, and these supposedly universal and benevolent systems end up flipping on the masses just like capitalism, monarchy, or any other previous system they rail against. At least with capitalism and free markets-- you actually have a chance to do better and have somewhat of a voice and free will, whether you make it or not. The past century has clearly shown us that capitalism is far superior, as is giving the public incentives to earn wealth and barter as they choose. It is not perfect, but neither is humanity. Communism in its modern form is really just another means for bankers to liquidate and control the wealth, assets, and lives of the sheep, for the elite party at the top. It is not the grassroots workers movement for equality it masquerades itself to be. For more on this, study the Russian Revolution, and how it was widely financed and associated with bankers, Western sympathizers, and secret societies with other goals in mind.

All that aside, the movie was still good, but could have been much better with a little longer runtime that develops the plot and ends with more satisfaction. As It winds to a close, it seems to run out of time to wrap up the story, and has to rush to a disappointing plot hole conclusion. They didn't have to reveal ALL of the mystery, but having a few more details or reveals would not hurt, and some of the plot holes around the Asian lady and the kid are a bit unfulfilling. I say 6 or 7, but the first half is more close to a 9. Just don't get caught up too much in all the Hollywood echo chamber nonsense and globalist conditioning-- to the point you sign your wealth and success away to elitist overlords who will simply turn the tables back around on you themselves...
