A beautifully shot film that was nothing like the type of movie I expected going in
When I saw that 'The Empty Man' was going to be 137 minutes long it had a little reluctant to go to it. The reason is that if a horror movie isn't good then even a 90 minute runtime can be an absolute drag. It's a real gamble for a film in that genre to be anywhere near two hours, let alone well past it. I usually try to avoid trailers for movies before I see them but on this occasion I did happen to catch it. It didn't fill me with confidence. Luckily the trailer is actually a little misleading, and the film actually has quite a different feel to it. Even though I wouldn't say I loved this movie by any means, it did have enough going on to keep it watchable for that runtime - just.The first thing I have to say is that the film is beautifully shot. There were a number of expertly crafted shots throughout the film, but one tracking shot from a map that turns into a forest and then finds its way down to a car driving through it was truly exquisite. I love that the artistic touches Ari Aster fills his films with are starting to inspire other directors.The second thing that occurs to me is that isn't really a horror movie, or at least not solely a horror movie. Apparently it is based on a comic series which are more like dark detective stories. That's kind of the vibe I got here and why I think this was able to survive a 137 minute push. It isn't just a case of passing from character to character and watching a new and inventive way for them to die. In fact the film is very rarely scary. I say that more in the sense that it doesn't actually try to be scary all that often, however when it does try it rarely hits the mark either sadly.If you're a fan of ASMR then you are likely going to have a good time with this film. There is a lot of it in the film and it is a pleasure to listen to (although it can be a risk to have you dozing off). I have a very middling opinion on this film. I neither hated it nor loved it. I wouldn't recommend people go out of their way to see it, but if they were going to see it I certainly wouldn't dissuade them either. Don't be too put off by the trailer is all I would say. It is not an accurate representation of the film.