As a fan that has watched all of the episodes and read a lot of the manga, I'm disappointed.
Im truly and utterly disappointed not only with this movie, but with Hiro Mashima himself. I have put so much time, money, and energy into my love for Fairy Tail. I have merchandise, and I am currently slaving away making a Minecraft Server based off of it. My family knows how much I love Fairy Tail. So my dad came to me today, all excited telling me he has found out about the new movie and he wanted to take me to see it. I, being a huge fan was squealing with excitement. To my horror, this is what I found out.Erza Scarlet. She is in my top 3 favorite characters. She is kind but fierce, strong but merciful, wise and intelligent, badass, and still funny and entertaining. She is one of the strongest mages in the anime in my opinion, her power is almost limitless. I started watching this anime when I was pretty young (which probably wasn't a very good idea because I was still innocent) but she helped me grow confident in myself because as silly as it sounds she taught me when to show mercy, when to fight for what you believe in. But when she was displayed in this movie, it was like she was slightly strong but mostly there for the sex appeal. Her true strength wasn't shown at all.Wendy Marvell. She was another one of my heroes. Being young like me I kind of looked up to her. In the Tartaros Arc, Wendy finally got her Dragon Force. This. Makes. Her. So. Very. Badass. She is now supposed to be very strong. However, she did go into her Dragon Force, but it was a horrible representation. She got little to no screen time, and she did not show her real strength! Charla, her white exceed. Turned into some sexy cat girl. Charla was supposed to "help Wendy fight" but we saw nothing of what Charla can do in that form. It was purely for sex appeal.Gajeel Redfox. All I have to say is, he is a very powerful Dragon Slayer as well, but he literally didn't do any magic. Not even turn his arms into Iron.Dragon Slayers. None. Of. Them. Even. Roared. That is like a trademark of the Dragon slayers, their roars. None of them even did it.Don't get me wrong, seeing Natsu go into Dragon Form was cool, but honestly it could have been infinitely better. Natsu didn't do any magic in that form, he just threw punches. He got little to no screen time in that form either.The Fights, were executed horribly, I am disgusted. And what made me fall in love with Fairy Tail is the whole, "fight for your comrades" "teamwork" "sacrifice" aspect. When they were "shown" it was a weak display. What I saw as the core values of Fairy Tail, were shown horribly.Save your time and money from this movie. It isn't worth it. You are better off just sticking to the manga and the anime. I was so ashamed that I showed this to my father and he believed that I loved this anime, I apologized to him profusely and to redeem myself I am showing him the GmG arc. It is a good display of the anime and they fights. This anime started with little to no fan service, and it was all about teamwork and getting strong as a team. To see this movie to be 90% fan service disgusts me. The movie, 10% fights, 5% Core Values, 85% Fanservice.