A feel good movie
There has been no doubt about Karunakarans brilliance. He has always amazed us with his brilliance, not to mention the many times he disappointed us with his incapability of handling screenplay at the right time, particularly at the end parts of the movie. Happy is a similar movie which has brilliance and also some truly unjustified scenes. Getting on with the review Happy Story Buny(arjun) a pizza delivery boy ends up marrying Madhumati(Genelia) to avoid her getting married to another person as that would end her dream of becoming a doctor. The story is truly a genuine one, Karunakaran needs to be applauded for his innovative idea, the story is about a pair marrying to avoid the problem at stake. But they progressively realise they love each other. How they overcome the other elements involved forms rest of the story.

Happy Performances Allu Arjun is good in the movie, his histrionics are good, especially his emotional outburst towards the very end of the movie remain with us after the movie. His fights are better than his dances, his flexibility really leaves us in awe. His performance in the songs is truly gracefully. He will have a hard time meeting expectations as he has set such high standards in his dance and fight departments.

Genelia is beautiful in her more traditional chudidaars. But there is a problem with her character in the movie, she cries for the whole movie, Genelia is focused as a insecure character. Karunakaran failed in showing her as a bubbly, chirpy girl. He should have taken care as a girl who is mischievous and naughty in the movie remains in the audience heart for a long time than a girl who weeps all throughout the movie; of course she had her bits of brilliance but over all her performance is OK.

Other Cast members that need mention are Manoj Bajpai, which I thought was a pretty good casting. Rama Prabha, Tanikella Bharani, Suman Setty and Jahnavi are OK.

The Happy Technical team Karunakaran, the man behind happy has done a commendable job. His story, screen play and direction are good in parts. There are a few scenes like Madhu asking Bunny to get out are not justified. The climax part also comes a surprise and we feel that it is totally forced on us to end the movie.

Music is excellent by Yuvan Shankar Raja. All songs are well picturised on good creative themes. All songs are well choreographed as well.

Final Word: A feel good movie that you will not want to miss. After you watch this movie there will be no way you will come out unsatisfied. It has got all the elements of a good fun movie.

TS Rating: 3.75/5 Reviewer: Jeewan