Autopsy, mathematics, Lewis Caroll, Mathematics genius add up to incongruent nothing
I don't know if the 8/10 9/10 ratings are given by bots. Lame 'old brothers unite' drama wrapped in the name of autopsy, math genius, Lewis Caroll, some accountancy angle, money laundering etc. Oh I forgot more ingredients : martial arts, soap opera styled back stories, and for once I heard the names 'taliban' and 'al qaeda' too. And what do all these words add up to. You would assume they would add up to something really interesting and thrilling. But it turns out, the movie could have still been made without calling on these crutches. That is because the movie is all about a gentleman accountant who can and does live a dual life. He helps average organization siphon off money to Panama, and bring them back. His clientele includes some of the most dangerous organizations today. And when he's been summoned by a certain robotics company to look into its books ever since some accountant lady found a possible anomaly, turn of events lead him to realize that the anomaly was indeed present in the books and that the motive was to evade tax, bring it back by short circuiting through Panama and take the company public. Exactly the kind of work he had been helping his clients with thus far. The audience is never given a convincing reason why would the owner call on a genius accountant if all he wanted to do was cook his books. Meanwhile, the accountant is asked to abort his analysis. Very soon we see hit-man of the robotics owner chasing the accountant who happens to remember his martial arts lesson very well and we are given flashbacks to his childhood which are not exactly necessary I'd say. Autopsy has no role to play here. He could have been any other character well trained in martial arts and genius at math. That is where the script scores negative points. Old fashion with new age packaging doesn't sell. Even if it does, the customer feels shortchanged in the end. Picture this : In the closing scene - how I wished that 'that' was the closing scene - the autistic Ben Afleck who we are made to believe is on the 'good' side, faces off with the final security guard of the robotics owner. Ben mumbles some rhyme which he'd been doing since childhood. The security guy hears something ring in his brain. They, well, talk in the heat of the moment. They understand that they were brothers. Yes you read that - they were brothers! Hurray they unite. The robotics owner watches all this with paranoia through surveillance camera feed as do the viewers in the cinema hall. He rushes to the scene. And again, they talk. How loosely scripted you'd say. Just to remind the viewers that Ben has autopsy, he shoots the robotics owner who was delivering a lecture on philanthropy, very abruptly. I was eager to set afoot and out the hall in a flash. But I was in the middle of the row and had to go through some 10 minutes more where I seriously don't even remember what they were showing. They could have brought it all to an end after the lecture on philanthropy ended. I wouldn't have been so worked up had the movie been sans all the adjunct accessories like autopsy, Lewis Caroll etc.