A Tragic Misfire
Cats is a film I really wasn't looking forward to seeing. One reason is the immense negative reception around it. The second one is that I'm not a big fan of musicals as a whole outside of animated films. The only one I recall truly liking is Sweeney Todd. It's just not a genre that appeals to me too much. I'm especially not a fan of musicals like this where every line of dialog is sung. Though, I'll say it's more tolerable here than it was in Les Miserable. So, is this movie as bad as everyone says? In my opinion, no. At the same time, I can't say it's a great movie either.

There's not much substance to the film other than the musical numbers, revolving around the most bare bones of a story. The film is about our main cat getting tossed onto the streets and is taken in by this band of stray cats immediately after. All these cats are competing in this really vague competition where the winner gets to ascend to this higher realm. It's not very well explained. Other than that it's just our character moving from one set piece to the next, and one musical number to the nest.

On that note, the music is good. I can't compare it to the original play because I've never seen it performed. All the actors do a fine job in acting and singing, at least for me. There's some great talent in this film. The dance choreography was fine too. For me every song was fine, except the final number. The entire ending to this film is lame and unnecessary. The song is stupid, and you also have Judy Dench's character giving this speech to the audience on how to treat your cat; breaking the fourth wall it's awful.

By far, the best thing about this film is the look, mainly the set pieces. I especially love the look of the city with how dark and misty it is. It gives the film a great dark and mysterious atmosphere to it.

I wasn't as bothered by the way the film looked, mainly the characters, like most people were. Though there was one musical number involving mice and bugs, which are humanoid like the cats, which made me uncomfortable. I know if I were a kid watching this I would've been really uncomfortable. I think this should've maybe been Pg-13 rather than PG.

Ultimately, I think the creators made the wrong decision of how to approach this material. This would've been better as a straight up animated picture. Then people would've felt far less unnerved watching it. In the play you had people in cat costumes because it was a play. This is a movie with $100 million budget behind it. They could've done literally anything, but instead just tried to recreate the play as is with bigger effects and set pieces.

They should've made this a 3D, or better yet, a 2D animated film. This film would've been right at home back in the 90s when 2D animation was still prominent. There's a film from that time called Cats Don't Dance. This should've been made like that. I know Stephen Spielberg was going to make this an animated film out of this, but that fell through. That probably would've been better.

Also the main villain played Macavity played by Idris Alba was really lame. Throughout this entire movie he's built-up as this crazy villain. He even has a song dedicated to hyping him up. Not only are his motivations unclear, but he's foiled super easily.

Overall, Cats is an example that not all plays can be translated to film, at least not in the way they did it. The music and set pieces are good, and everyone gives a good performance. However, there's no real plot, the villain is weak, and the ending is lame. Again, this would've been better appreciated if this had just been an animated film.