Don't go! a 143 minute film trailer of Dubstep explosions and no plot.

The first half an hour or so is fantastic. It has all the elements of great sci-fi high fantasy, the effects, of course are spectacular. The actors too, can't really fault them either. By about half way through the film, you've pretty much got your money's worth though and the rest is like being hit in the face and ears repeatedly by Dubstep sound effects and explosions. There is no love, no investment in any of the characters and the failings of this film lie purely with the screenplay which could have been written better by a child and the director who seems to have missed the point of sci-fi fantasy completely. This film has one story line, no twists, no characterisation, no point and no pleasure factor past the first half. The second half seems to go on and on and on and on, never ending explosions and fighting. I love a good fight, don't get me wrong but when you know how the film is going to end and there really isn't any suspense left but you still have to endure another 40 minutes of ear splitting explosions and fists hitting things, it began to actually feel like torture. I was left feeling grief for the amount of time, money and creativity that so many good film industry bods put into what could have been an excellent summer block buster. How could this film end up being SOOOOOO dull? Lois Lane was a massive fail. Amy Adams is a red head for a start and even though I love her and think she's a fabulous actor, this was not the part for her. Lois Lane is an awesome Marvel Character, you could argue that she is as important as Superman himself, her part is crucial and her relationship with Superman is a massive part of any Superman story. In this, the script basically explains the plot, there is no actual acting out of any of the story and Lois Lane is allowed to look like a helpless ditsy girl who gets into dangerous situations that make no sense, I didn't believe her character at all. It wasn't her acting, it was the script and direction at fault, not to mention that she shouldn't have played Lois Lane in the first place. The sound track could have been written by a robot, again, it had all the elements of what could have been really good but then lacked any feeling or emotion. The whole point of the music is to embellish the story and I found my self being irritated by it. So so disappointed. I can watch John Carter and Avengers over and over again, I actually read graphic novels, I love Marvel films in general and I love most things Sci-Fi Fantasy but this was a spectacular waste of money. I've looked up Zak Snyder's other films to date and I really liked 300 but I will avoid him in the future, he just doesn't float my boat.
