That's not my Simpsons! That's not my Simpsons!!!
I never thought the television series would have strayed so far away from itself, but The Simpsons Movie goes to prove it has. I have a feeling that deep down inside the producers of this film somewhat knew they were going to make a terrible film that would sweep the box offices pronto, and it did. 74 million on the opening weekend in the USA. Of course people are going to see it, it's the Simpson's Movie! The Simpson's, the classic television series that defines a portion of our modern generation. When one quotes the Simpson's, everyone knows where it is from, at least, in our age group. This movie however has strayed so far away from the real Simpson's that it's as thought it doesn't know its own self anymore. You compare this film to the original early 90's episodes and there is a lot of stupidity, character change, dumb humor and so on.

Remember when you came home and watched the Simpson's in the afternoon like everyone else in the 90s? You'd be fed amazing subject matter, themes, and messages week after week, time after time, and this subject matter was made into witty intelligent humor that striked out a message to your average modern day dysfunctional family. The Simpson's was so relatable to almost everyone who watched it. For an example: when Bart enters the golf putty tournament and Homer pressures him into it, it was so relatable to so many people but in the end it would clean up with Homer and Flanders wearing their wives dresses mowing their lawns. Something serious with a punch of humor, which was what the Simpson's, was all about. The episode where Bart and Lisa fight over Bart destroying Lisa's thanks giving ornament and Bart runs away from home yet only to return to his family who loves him dearly despite all the fighting and such. This was it! This was the Simpson's that everyone loved!

Week after week people would never get upset over their loved television show involving Homer strangling Bart, Homer falling down the stairs, Lisa giving out some intelligent remark only to be ignored by her family, Marge groaning or Maggie falling over her dress. If you pay attention, this is all disappearing in the new episodesas sad as it is, but our lovable characters are being disfigured into something and someone else. Look at Bart in the film for an example, Bart is upset because his dad isn't enough of a father figure, therefore he turns to the Flanders family?!?! Bart, the boy struggling at school and the boy who has the sling shot in his back pocket, is a trouble maker! He doesn't want a father figure! Not only the enormous change of characters has been happening, but far fetched, random, Family Guy-esquire humor has been occurring in the Simpson's, when shouldn't the Simpson's stay as the Simpson's and not turn into something its not, Family Guy?

There's some really terrible jokes in this film too. Homer pours a silo of pig excrement into a lake so it mutates animals? Yeahokaythat's realistic and funnyand the spider pig joke, people, it isn't funny!! This movie just goes to prove that the producers shove the Simpson's on our plates and we gobble it up laughing our heads off because it's the Simpson's in the 21st century, now they can do anything they want because they were defined enough in the 90's! No! I'm sick to death of the Simpson's going to foreign countries and encountering some danger or misfortune along the way that winds them up in some absolute ridiculous situation – ending up on a game show, discovering a diamond mine topped with monkey slaves. Its stuff like this that the producer's are clearly saying "We have run out of ideasyou're on your own!"

Its sad when you look at the classic Simpson's and then look at the modern times of the Simpson's, and you'll see that its all going down the drain, that the "dumb" shows are being shown over and over and the classic ones which I have mentioned are being pushed into oblivion aka Sunday afternoons. Another thing, Futurama's film is being released direct to video? Futurama should be the new Simpson's in all honesty, its loaded, and I mean loaded, with tonnes of emotional episodes, characters and its actually pure genius! Shame what they've done to the Simpson's, it truly is