Didn't like it.
Gone in Sixty Seconds is set in Long Beach in California where car thief Kip Raines (Giovanni Ribisi) gets caught while stealing a Porsche, the guy he was working for Raymond Calitri (Christopher Eccleston) is not happy. Atlee Jackson (Will Patton) tracks down Kip's brother, the legendary car thief Memphis Raines (Nicholas Cage) & tells him that Calitri wants to kill his brother Kip. Memphis confronts Calitri who says Kip was hired to boost fifty cars & that he has a buyer waiting for them, with only four days left Calitri demands Memphis steal the fifty cars instead or he will kill Kip. Memphis has no choice but to agree & gets together a gang of thieves to try & steal fifty cars in less than four days which has never been done before...

Directed by Dominic Sena this was a big budget Hollywood remake of the action film Gone in 60 Seconds (1974) & while I have not seen the original one I can't imagine this being much better as I thought it was pretty average, available as both a theatrical cut & a director's cut which runs ten minutes longer I will be basing my comments on the shorter theatrical version. The one overriding factor that I disliked about Gone in Sixty Seconds is how soulless & casual it is, in this film nice cars are just seen as things to steal & no thought is given to the consequences or the victims at all. In fact at one point a thief is asked if he feels sorry for the victims & he just says 'hell no'. Well, having your car stolen is a big deal & is very distressing & this film treats the matter with disdain & like it's cool to steal cars with no regard to the consequences. The character's are poor, they are empty & shallow & unlikable, from the idiotic Kip to the annoying gang of thieves that range from a mute to a black comedy relief gangster to an old level headed professional. The dialogue is bad, the scene on Kip's porch as Memphis tries to explain the allure of stealing cars & make it sound sexy is cringe worthy as is the scene in which these care free thieves entertain each other by car related film & TV trivia & the discussion Memphis has with his mother is also a complete misfire. The ending is a disaster too, so the cop & the criminal find some mutual respect for each other & the cop lets Memphis go but what about all the other car thieves? What about the rest of the police force? Did they just forget about Memphis & all the damage he caused & all the cars he stole? The plot could have made for a great action thriller & is the only thing the film has going for it but even that is stolen from another film so I really find it difficult to recommend Gone in Sixty Seconds apart from a couple of half decent action scenes, some unintentionally funny dialogue & badly misjudged emotion that comes across as camp.

The biggest surprise about Gone in Sixty Seconds is the bland action, there are lots of boring shots of cars but actual vehicular mayhem is kept to a minimum, the final fifteen minutes sees a cool car chase but otherwise there's every little here to get excited about. There are some screeching & speeding cars, a couple of cars are blown up & there's a few fist fights but very little else. The cars look nice enough but I just don't get the attraction really, a car's a car to me & if it goes fast & has a nice paint job so the hell what? The whole film has been alternately shot with bright neon lighting during the night scenes & a dull sandy colour during the daytime scenes. Made before the annoying fad for machine gun editing at least it's filmed with a steady hand & you can always tell what's going on but the trend for loud obnoxious music is here in full force.

With a supposed budget of about $90,000,000 it's well made with flashy production values, fast cars & a no expense spared feel. Mainly shot in California the final chase scene was filmed in Ontario in Canada. The acting is bad by everyone, Cage & Angelina Jolie are awful. The acting talents of Robert Duvall & Delroy Lindo is wasted while Vinnie Jones & Christopher Eccelston have nothing more than cameos. Writer Scott Rosenberg has a small cameo as a Doctor.

Gone in Sixty Seconds is a flashy soulless & empty remake that I didn't even think reached the lowly heights of averageness, often unintentionally funny & lacking is memorable action scenes I was left throughly unimpressed.