Pretentious, Glossy Travel Ad; Bardem Esp Bad
"Eat Pray Love" is a botch. There are some very pretty images on screen of beautiful people lounging and engaging in shallow, narcissistic, pseudo-spiritual preening and posing, some nice, crunchy, flowing, draping, tie-dyed, robes and scarves, and some heaping plates of pasta gorged down by people with perfect teeth. It's like looking at a spiritually pretentious, multi-culti American Express commercial for two and a half hours. The travelogue scenes are undermined, though, by inappropriate camera work. Directory Ryan Murphy uses a shaky, hand-held camera, spinning scenes, and extreme close-ups. His cinema-verite style is very out of place with this material.

Other than Richard Jenkins' performance, "Eat Pray Love" has not one second of integrity. It wants to be about the nature of love, the mystery of life, and the search for the transcendent. The main stars and Ryan Murphy, the writer–director, show no evidence of any depth or insight on any of these questions. I pity the fool who takes this film on as a spiritual guide or love guru.

I'm not sure if viewers were supposed to have as much contempt for the characters as I ended up having. Was I supposed to regard Elizabeth (Julia Roberts) as a passive, parasitic, narcissist, coward, and tramp who slept with anyone who was almost as good looking as she? She's coupled with three men in the movie, and flirts seriously with two more, and they are all pretty enough for a travel layout in Vanity Fair. None has any discernible personality. The only reason Elizabeth has for hooking up with these guys is that he and she are the two best looking characters on screen at any given moment.

Even though Elizabeth embarks on a life-changing world tour, and does one charitable deed, she comes across as passive. Others in the film have lives; Elizabeth stands on the sideline, watching. She lives through others. This is especially evident when her Indian friend, Tulsi, is forced into an arranged marriage at age 17.

I've met Hindu women in their forties and fifties who could still cry real tears over that moment when they came home and found the red sari and were forced to start producing children for a strange man they didn't know and didn't much like. This film treats forced, child marriage as just another chance for stunning wardrobe changes and shots suitable for a National Geographic spread.

The multi-culti "It's a Small World" approach is morally grotesque, especially in a film that wants to be about searching for the big truths. In terms of the structure of the film itself, showing Julia Roberts, no doubt the tallest person there, hanging out at an Indian wedding just makes the character into a dilettante, someone the viewer finds hard to like.

In addition to being shallow, the script is at times incoherent. I had no idea what was going on in the first twenty minutes of the film. I didn't know – and I still don't – what Elizabeth does for a living, how she lost all her money, as the film tells us she does, or how she got the money back. She appears to give all her money to her layabout (but pretty) husband; why? Couldn't she get a better divorce lawyer? Then she's off to Italy to eat pasta and tease a sexually frustrated language tutor and annoy traditional Italian matrons who don't understand her lifestyle choice; where'd this woman who just lost everything get the cash to do that? Viola Davis is compelling, but I have no idea who her character was or what she was doing in the film, except as a racial token, which is sad. I kept thinking how much better of a film this would have been had someone with Davis' depth been a main character.

James Franco pops up as one of Elizabeth's lovers, but his entire, tedious and uninteresting segment could have been deleted, and nothing would have been lost.

Elizabeth has a Balinese guru named Ketut. No idea whether we are supposed to take Ketut seriously or not. He is a fortune teller who repeats the same tired spiel to each new client: "You are a world traveler." Mind, he's reading the palms of world travelers. He smiles without letup, which gets creepy.

Had I not seen this film, I never would have known how bad an actor Javier Bardem can be when he has contempt for his project. As one of Elizabeth's boytoys, Bardem gives one of the single worst screen performances I've ever seen. He slums through the film with a phony, creepy smile on his face, the kind of smile that hides something. I was hoping that he might be a slasher; now that would have perked the film up.

There are a couple of utterly phony scenes, one with an Aussie lad we could never believe is Bardem's son, one where Bardem invites Roberts to an island getaway, that are overcooked to scorching point – you can practically smell the phony emoting – and that cheapen the film beyond redemption. What was going on with the director? Did he not see what Bardem was doing?

Richard Jenkins, as a soul-wrecked Texan seeking enlightenment, or at least the ability to sleep at night, is the one integral, worthy feature of the film. His character is real, and believable, so well-written I have to guess someone other than the main writer created him, and perfectly well acted.

See a really brilliant film about a beautiful woman on an international quest for spiritual transcendence: "The Nun's Story," starring Audrey Hepburn and Peter Finch.