Exactly What You Would Expect (For Better Or Worse)
Right now, take a minute and think about what you would expect from a movie like "Everest". Have that thought in your head? Well, that is exactly what "Everest" is...no more, no less.

For a basic plot summary, "Everest" tells the story (based on real-life experiences) of a group of climbers attempting to ascend to the mountain's summit in 1996. The problem that year, however, was that there was more traffic than ever before at the base of the mountain. Seemingly everyone wanted to make that climb on a single weekend. As such, the groups led by Rob Hall (Jason Clarke) & Beck Weathers (Josh Brolin) decide to team up in order to reduce traffic and increase the likelihood of success. What they don't count on? A terrific storm that whips up and threatens every single climber on the mountain.

First and foremost, "Everest" is very much a traditional "based on a true story" survival type of film. All the typical beats, characters, and situations you've seen in disaster movies are all present and accounted for. Not until the last 30 minutes or so does it really produce anything unique or off the beaten path. Depending on your point of view, this could raise or lower the overall star ranking quite a bit. I went into the movie not knowing what to expect, and just by personal preference was a bit disappointed in that I like films that stretch storytelling boundaries a bit. This film doesn't do that (mainly through no fault of its own, as it is based on a true story), so just as long as you know that going in you'll know what you are in for.

Besides being relatively "paint by numbers" in terms of storytelling, "Everest" does enough things right for even someone like me to still get something out of the experience. The visuals are stunning, the acting is well done, and those last 30 or so minutes provide some legitimate unexpected moments and emotional material.

What it comes down to with "Everest", then, is that your enjoyment will almost wholly be based on your expectations and what type of movie you like. If you love "true stories" and survival tales, this one is for you. If you (like me) are looking for a bit more dramatized plots and originality in technique, you might be a little disappointed. Again, the film can only "be what it can be", obviously, so that is why your mindset going in may just determine the star ranking coming out.