Great entertainment!
Much has been written here about this movie, both pro and con. Yes, the plot had holes, to wit: The crowds in New York (during the Kong rampage seem to disappear and reappear at times. It seemed very cold yet Ann, dressed in a very loose, brief dress did not seem to be bothered by it, even when on top of the Empire State Building. (Anyone that has been there knows that even in summer, it is cool and breezy 102 stories up.) How did they get Kong from Skull Island onto the ship? How did they keep him anesthetized on what is a very long voyage from the South Pacific to New York and how did they feed him during the trip? (And what did they do with all that monkey poop that must have been generated?) How did they sneak him from the docks to the theater so that nobody ever saw the big guy until the premiere night? I could go on ad nauseam but why? People! This is a science fiction movie, not a National Geographic special! There is no Skull Island, no 25 foot tall ape, not now nor in the 1930s! This was entertainment, pure and simple.

So, we should ask ourselves, "Was I entertained?" And the answer is an unequivocal yes. In writing, an author is able to use something called literary license to bend the rules to suit his story. Jackson simply did the same thing in his epic motion picture. And that is even more allowable because this is science fiction. This whole debate reminds me of the discussions about why Captain Kirk should have pushed the 3rd button and not the 4th button on the transporter panel. Hello? This is not real, folks! Sci-ence Fic-tion!

Then there are comments about the cast. Yes, Jack Black and Adrian Brody were probably not the first choices, but so what? They did a good job in their roles! And few have anything bad to say about Naomi Watts' performance which many agree is deserving for an Oscar! The film is beautiful to watch and the dinosaur battles (as well as the other beasties) are state of the art! The most impressive thing about this movie? The romance between Ann and Kong. It is a fine line that a director must skirt when creating this unorthodox romance. Handled poorly, it would be comical, farcical and just ridiculous. Jackson, with a surgeon's touch, crafted a beautiful, very touching romance that left more than a few people in the audience misty eyed when Kong met his demise.

In summation, take the movie for what it is, folks. Entertainment and damn good entertainment at that!