Adventures , spectacular battles and necromancy with all star cast
Sword-and-Sorcery epic deals with a countryman named Farmer played by Jason Statham as lead accompanied by two partners , Ron Perlman and Will Sanderson , taking on multiple adventures , monsters and dangers . Thrilling and spectacular movie full of fantasy that introduces us a brave hero and appointed to juvenile public and full-blooded adventure aficionados. Sword-and-sorcery saga with stirring action , spectacular images and fantastic scenes including witchery ,witchcraft and necromancy . Set in the kingdom of Ehb, the tale tells a good man called Farmer (Jason Statham), who was adopted by a family . The man married a gorgeous woman and a son sets out to rescue his abducted wife named Solana (Claire Forlani) and revenge a death , two acts executed by the Krugs, a race of monster-warriors who are dominated by the wicked Gallian (Ray Liotta). When Farmer's wife and his son leave their hut to sell cabbage at the village of Stonebridge, Farmer's farm is attacked by strange creatures called Krugs. With the help of his neighbor Norrick (Ron Perlman) he travels to Stonebridge; however, the Krugs capture his wife. With the assistance of Norrick ( Ron Perlman )and Bastian (Will Sanderson)Farmer's brother-in-law, and a magician (John Rhys Davies) he tries to encounter and save his wife. Furthermore , they are helped by an intrepid Amazon woman (Kristanna Loken) . The Krugs are being submitted by the sorcerer Gallian with the collaboration of the King's nephew Fallow (Matthew Lillard) who intend to amass an army to overthrow King Konreid (Burt Reynolds), being supported by his commandant (Brian White). At the end takes place an impressive battle between wizards (Ray Liotta , John Rhys-Davies and his daughter played by Lelee Sobieski) and Farmer .

This exciting movie displays unstopped action, thrills ride, spectacular fighting, violence and is pretty entertaining , though mediocre .This is a tale of magic , imagination, blood and wizardly set in a mythical world from Middle Age full of barbarisms . It packs large amount of fights in ¨Lord of Rings¨ style , there's a huge body count, this one actually knocks off an immense several struggles in which the warriors are staked bloodily in the chest, beheaded or slashed . There's really savage decapitation, plenty of bodies ripped in scraps and half, including some of the most tears ever, that spill lots of blood . Most of monsters called Krugs and humans victims are relegated to being stabbed in the chest ,throat or neck. Breathtaking images , spectacular battles and duels and lots of amusement and entertainment . Made on a fairly big scale with spectacular set design and glimmer photography . Quite budget for a German/Canada/US co-production and lavishly produced by the same Uwe Boll. Magnificent special and visual effects as well as excellent make-up department. Bone-chilling and atmospheric musical score and colorful cinematography ; furthermore spectacular production design . The motion picture is regularly directed by Uwe Boll . All four of the films he has realized that were based upon video games, House of the Dead (2003), Alone in the Dark (2005), BloodRayne (2005) and BloodRayne II: Deliverance (2007) were listed on the bottom of barrel by the reviewers. Most of the other films he's directed, including Heart of America (2002), and Blackwoods (2002) are not widely available in America, but have received similarly low ratings among those who have seen them. Having directed 25 movies up to 2011, Boll is panned by the critics and he has received below average reviews. Recommended to those who amuse those kind of adventure films or those enjoy in general.The film will appeal to fantasy buffs with action enough to make it worth looking in on . In other words, it seem likely Sword-sorcery genre enthusiasts and juvenile viewers will be delighted because action and adventures are thrillingly presented and edited to offer the maximum impact. Rating : 5,5 ; average though some moments is amusing.