THE WALL: A cultural arts opus
PINK FLOYD THE WALL Finds itself among modern cinema's most culturally significant films.  Based upon Pink Floyd's 1979 musical album of the same title, Pink Floyd The Wall chronicles the rise and fall of supposed Britishlead singer, and Live Aid coordinator, Sir Bob Geldof.  Set in the cinematic duality of 'Seamless Realism' and 'Formalism,' the hand drawn work celebrates the caricature art of Gerald Scarfe, the renowned English political cartoonist and illustrator. The Wall uses both mediums to interweave Pink's neuroses, addictions, childhood abuse, fears and desires.  rock-n-roller sex symbol "Pink," played to perfection by Boomtown Rats  Once the money-making potential of Pink becomes realized by the exploiters in his life, Pink ceased being human and became a cash cow. Parasites feeding upon his talent provided insight into the same fame monster which oft befalls entertainers.  Pink finds acceptance of himself, a visage of empty and ill-spent young adulthood, through traditional escapism: alcohol, sex and narcotics. As Pink collapses inwardly, he realizes that in order to find himself he must confront fears and extricate himself from the addictions to which he's become "comfortably numb." The Wall is brilliant in its horrifying multiple realities, its complex music and its blending of various visual mediums. With Pink Floyd holding so many milestones throughout their 50+ year career, The Wall is oft regarded as the band's crowning achievement; a contribution to, and celebration of, themselves.  So then, why is this movie still so culturally significant? Amongst art, film and music societies, The Wall is widely regarded as the last great, truly iconic hand-created animation "super film", akin to its 1960s Beatles-infused cousin, Yellow Submarine.  As personal computer animation, stop-frame animation and Henson oriented puppets began saturating 1980s movies, The Wall officially ushered out handcrafted movie art, which stepped aside (or, more aptly, was pushed aside) for what became the CGI revolution.  The Wall was a bridge between our cultural past and visionary glimpses of our supposed future. The Wall is an example of the powerful imagery and the moving beauty that hand-rendered artwork can (still) command...  Yeah... Even in this 21st Century digital downloadable society.  Technical nirvana is great and all but there really is something a wee bit satisfying about coming across a film that cannot -and will not ever- be replicated.  And, oh, by the way... which one's Pink?