Did the director go on holiday for the last third of the film and hand his directing duties to a 12 year old kid?
This will contain MAJOR spoilers, so readers beware. Fast and Furious 6 just went off its rails, scrap that - it completely flew off its rails. This film turned utterly ridiculous to the point where I am left thinking "why?" There was no need for the film to pan out how it did. The first part (and I should point out) main bulk of the film was enjoyable, trying to track down Letty whilst working alongside the very man trying to stop them previously (Hobbs) offered something new and interesting and it made for some interesting moments. This part of the film I felt was good, even if they did practically ignore the car side of things. It's like they tried to force some stuff in there about the cars but then they never even showed what the cars actually where, or anything about the flipper car which was actually quite interesting. The first car sequence in the film they all used BMW 5 series? (This is major spoilers from now on) Why, if Riley is Shaw's girlfriend would she be ordered practically to her death throughout the whole film? There was a whole massive fight scene with Letty and herself, surely if they was working together that fight just didn't need to happen since no one was even there but those two see it. So they just had a fight for no reason. Why would Riley chase Letty so vigilantly? She could have let her get away without getting herself thrown down some concrete stairs. They forced this twist in the film for some reason. Then for the main car chase in the film / action sequence, Shaw's team capture a "convoy" which is just a truck and two jeeps. I can't fathom how stupid this actually is because not only does this tiny convoy have a hugely powered tank inside, it also has the chip worth "billions" and is a danger to everyone etc. Yet this convoy, of MILITARY personnel is incapable of protecting this vital piece of equipment. Men trained in warfare are treated like pawns which the criminals just shrug off with ease. Did I mention the military was aware Shaw's team was there, Shaw's team notorious for their driving ability and capture of convoys and yet this tank and lorry are just casually driving along with what may as well be no protection at all? Why? Why didn't they make the convoy seem stronger and actually include some intelligent action here for the capture of the tank? Then they actually capture this tank and Shaw's team are now military experts who know exactly how to control this tank. They needlessly kill dozens of innocent people by crushing them to death and no one even seems fazed by it. Now if a tank was captured in this way, who would come in to stop it? Not Dom and Brian. The rest of military would. Utterly ridiculous but I accept that is how the film works so I don't hold that against the film too much - that is just your typical mindless action movie stuff. It would have been much more interesting if the military got involved alongside the team though. Then it happens. The corniest moment I have ever seen in any film ever. Letty is catapulted over the edge of a huge bridge; she is flying through the air to her certain death. But wait! Dom then catapults himself from the other side of the bridge (there is a gap in the middle) catches her in mid air and lands perfectly onto a car to break their fall. Why does this scene have to exist? It's awful, from this moment on the film goes rubbish. This moment, is where I think the director/producer/writer went on holiday and no longer cared.They capture Shaw at this point and he then reveals his team have taken Mia hostage. Fair enough, that's a decent ending and seems like it has set up for the next film perfectly. But no, Hobbs pulls a gun out and tells everyone how they are going to put loads of other lives at risk to save one person (Mia) by giving Shaw his chip and letting him go. The film then moves onto what is quite possibly the most unrealistic action scene ever recorded in Hollywood. Shaw has casually organised a cargo plane to pick them up from this military base. Where the hell did this cargo plane come from, an unauthorised huge military cargo plane Shaw just happens to have ready, and also access to a military base runway. This scene is meant to be about Shaw getting away. I'm not too sure on the science here but, if I am driving at 150mph onto a plane moving at 140mph will my car nice and gently stop when I get on the planes ramp? Or will my car suddenly shoot forwards from momentum and smash into the insides of plane. Honestly I'm not too sure but anyway... They kill Gisele for seemingly no reason and no one even cares. They don't even rush back to find her, they just accept she is dead. Likely she is but if you are Han in this situation do you stand there and accept it? Shouldn't he be getting in a car and rushing to where she fell to find her... Not to mention this huge plane exploded right next to everyone and no one was even that bothered by it. Just everything about this last scene I disliked, probably because it was just so unnecessary to begin with. They should have just ended the film with Owen Shaw being captured, then have Ian Shaw (Statham) break him free at the start of the next film. Instead they plonked this last ridiculous action scene in there just because the producers felt like it needed it. It really didn't. Film started off good then just went off the rails. 5/10.