Its about time!
The straight guys have had their fair share of raunchy sex comedies for decades now..from "Porky's" to "American Pie" and its sequels and dozens in between. Many of them were forgettable, but they churned them out nonetheless.

Now the gay guys have theirs, and although the explicit sex makes "Porky's" look like "Mary Poppins", this is still a mostly hilarious movie that should gain an audience if TLA Releasing has luck on its side. The fact that its 'unrated' means it will not be advertised in major newspapers so it might be an uphill battle for the movie to be seen and successful, but it won't be because of what is on screen. The audience I saw it with enjoyed the hell out of it! Many of the reviews I've read seem unfairly harsh. One even went so far as to mention that the guys' 'toast to the sequel seems overly optimistic' (or words to that effect), and I don't think that was to be taken literally. Why take THAT moment seriously when the whole thing is obviously just for laughs? The plot could be condensed onto a fortune cookie message .. four guys try to get laid. Its not that much different because the guys are gay, but yet it is, too. You're still dealing with stereotypes - Griff (the Nerd), Jarod (the Good-Looking Guy), Andy (the Regular Guy) and Nico (the Comedian) and for good measure, you have the Butch Lesbian, who egg the Fab Four to (borrowing an annoying expression).."get busy." Then its a race to the finish, with each guys agenda in place to ensure sexual conquest.

The movie gives a big, affectionate nod to "American Pie" but also references many other gay-favorite movies and icons...Madonna, Carol Channing, Paul Lynde, "Mommie Dearest", "All About Eve", "Carrie" and even Karen Black as the endangered stewardess in "Airport '75." The actors do a great job and most of the cameos are fun. No stone is left unturned as far as gay sex is concerned, and I guess many would gripe that it goes too far. You do get BEAUCOUP sex and nudity, so don't bring Grandma. But hey, there's a homophobic drunken Republican in the White House, so it all kinda evens out in the end, right? Anywho, I had a good time. 9/10.