ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT FILMS IN ROCK HISTORY
Anyone who doesn't like this film really doesn't get it. It's not meant to be a documentary or some great cinematic masterpiece. It's not even a 100% representation of the truth. The truth is that a group of people with different ideas and different motivations came together to change the country. That country being England. It's a fantastic record of the times in an age where to record anything took a ton of large cum ersome heavy equipment t and a lot of insight. I can't tell you how lucky we are to have as much of this recorded for history as we do and that is largely thanks to McLaren and Temple. If it wasn't for them, mostly a temple, this entire genre, what it stood for and how it effected the life and times of popular culture would have been lost forever. In an age where everyone has a mobile phone and can record anything in an instant it's easy to forget that no one has a camera back in 1976 and to carry one around and film anything you had to be a real real enthusiast. So there we have it. A brilliant record of the times edited together to make something entertaining and that's what TGRARS is. A time machine. A win down back into the PST and a record of what was undeniably one of the most unique, inspiring and exciting times in music in the U.K. if it wasn't for Temple and McLaren the myth/cult of the sex pistols would be nothing that it is today. Particularly in the case of Sid Vicious. A fascinating character that any tv producer would give their high teeth to be able to film and document today. What amazing times. I just hope and pray that Julian Temples vast archive of home made shot films can see the light of day in my life time. I'm sure he has tons more that he's never shown. He once shot a sex tape of sid and Nancy that's never been seen but that is probably best left in the past... yet there would be much more interesting footage to be found in his archive. Today, 40+ years on most people don't even know who the sex pistols were. We live in times where civil liberties are being eroded at and incredible rate... and this film is an important reminder that you don't have to accept what governments throw at you. You can fight back. Watch it and anything else you can find about this incredibly short lived but important group. Our futures might depend on it.