Big dumb fun is "OK"
This certainly isn't the worst movie i've ever seen, but it's far from the best. If you go into it with an open mind just wanting to be entertained and not expecting anything cerebral, than you'll likely be amused.

The Good:

Ray Park as Snake Eyes. Ray Park never disappoints. His martial arts style and amazing flexibility shine through here too. I was pleased.

Joseph Gordon-Levitt. Probably the best performance of anyone in the movie (right up there with Park.) I was very impressed with his portrayal of the half mad genius doctor. He captured the atmosphere of the character dead on. You'll enjoy him every second he's on screen.

A lot of the POV shots are very cool (esp the "Joe plane"). The attention to detail in most parts of the film is really very good. Particularly the shot of the city "grid" below when a complicated sky shot is occurring. Even if it is CGI, it's done very well, and doesn't look fake. The traffic action sequences are nicely done, as are the destruction of the "metal objects" of different heights and lengths. I also enjoyed the transitions from scene to scene, esp. during battles. (Matching what the plane was doing, and then morphing to the submarine in a similar position was pretty cool.)

Your all around performances by the rest of the cast really aren't too bad, but at the same time isn't anything remarkable either.

The Bad:

If you're expecting any character development....don't, there really isn't any. A few characters have a few brief flashbacks to establish quick parts of their lives, but it really isn't anything substantial or particularly revealing.

Don't expect anything special from the dialog either, it's not deep, and most of the time not really particularly interesting. It's not necessarily monotone as much as it is flat and consistent. Few characters ever seem to be astonished or overwhelmed by the situations/battles/action sequences they've found themselves in. I'm willing to believe this is a casualty of acting in front of green screen with mega effects and explosions added post production, or just lazy script writing and the failure of the director to envision what will eventually be added and directing his actors to feel it.

The movie is laughable unintentionally in certain parts, mostly thanks to cornball dialog and occasional over the top acting.

A few nit-picky items I had with the movie:

Why is it all the women have this long hair all over the place all the time, even in the heat of battle? Seems to me a ponytail could at least have been utilized, instead super model hair abounds! Oh well.

Could we make the Cobra Commander a cooler mask? In the cartoon he had this faceless mask that you never saw through. It was simple, and yet effective in it's design. I got all excited in this movie when the doctor finally donned his commander mask, only to have it look like something you'd use around your house when doing projects, covered in something cheap looking & shiny, with large, clear, plastic eye-holes. If Gordon-Levitt could pull a performance that surpassed expectations, than surely the effects department could whip him up a mask to match.