Now This Is Some High Quality Crap!!!!
It is almost impossible to imagine that in 2015, as movie audiences experience the golden age of superhero movies that there can still be crap like this. Somehow, someway Fant4stic reaches into the depths of awful superhero movies, and takes the crown for being one of the worst superhero movies of all time. Lets start with the lack of story or even a simple plot. For starters, we really aren't even introduced to some resemblance of a plot until an hour into the movie, and even then the plot essentially boils down to Doom sucking a hole out of the earth to somehow build his own planet, which is completely bare. Considering that synopsis, I think it is almost safe to say that this movie doesn't even have a plot (or one that at least makes sense). OK so the movie doesn't have a "genuine" plot, that been the case with some other superhero movies. It should at least have some cool action scenes or provide some worthwhile visuals. Nope! I honestly can only recall maybe five minutes of some actual "action"' and even that was happening, it was absolute crap. There were multiple opportunities throughout the film to showcase their powers, especially in the scene with Reed Richards and Ben Grimm, but instead, all we are left with is crappy one-liners. Even in the last 10 minutes when we get the big battle, it ends up being a boring, uneventful, cliché, and yes crappy letdown. So we've got no story, no action, no villain (I won't even waste my time with Dr. Dumb), how about some witty dialogue or a couple of humorous scenes. Wrong again. In its attempt to be the Dark Knight of FOX superhero movies, Fant4stic is stripped of all the humor and campiness that at least made the earlier Fantastic Four movies watchable. Instead, we get a dark and surprisingly depressing film that doesn't evoke any sense of emotion from the viewer except for boredom. The jokes are laughable (except there not) and just about all the interaction between characters feels forced and inauthentic. OK. So by now you get the idea. Fant4stic is an absolute crap-shoot of a movie. A movie void of a plot, action, and OK dialogue doesn't even deserve to be called by its name, hence the Fant4stic's. It makes the earlier Fantastic Four movies look like The Avengers, and in the end, serves as an embarrassment to anyone associated with the film. And if you were wondering, yes, it is even worse than Batman & Robin. :0