More like the D-team
I typically enjoy mindless action movies that have a paper-thin plot and usually nothing else to offer. Albeit, the A team is a mindless summer blockbuster and has a paper-thin plot, but it just isn't fun. Not only isn't it interesting but it also suffers from an abysmal script, a poor direction, and very average performances. The major issue is not that I didn't like The A-team, I hated it. And the strange thing is, I had no expectations. I wasn't expecting anything because I didn't even want to see it that much. Moreover, you know how many summer blockbusters have high production values? Wow. Here, production values have been tossed out the window. Is this what Hollywood has resort to? Films with big explosions and zero fun? Wow, I never thought you could screw up a simple, mindless action flick, but I guess the impossible just turned into the improbable.

I'd speak about the plot, but most of you know it by now, and it's as thin as a cardboard cut- out. Well, I'll talk about the positives, which are very scarce. First of all, I thought Liam Nesson's performance was pretty good. Second of all, I thought the action was slick. That's about it.

Now, let's head to the negatives, which are very overbearing. First off, I thought this movie was unnecessarily boring and just a chore to sit through. From the very beginning of this movie, I was not hooked at all with what I was seeing. The running time is just shy of two hours, but it feels like an hour and a half longer. Second of all, I thought the performances were bland. I did not care about any of the characters, with the exception of Liam Nesson. They were obnoxious, rebellious, and unintelligent in every sense. To add to that, I thought the direction was lousy. This movie was just all over the place, lacking coherency. Additionally, I thought this movie had way too much action. I understand it's an action movie, but is it really necessary to have explosions every two minutes? Come on now, that's a bit inane. Moreover, I thought this movie was heavily nonsensical. Nothing made sense and the holes in the script were the size of Texas. To put the icing on the cake, I thought the dialog was just awful. Every time a joke came on-screen my laughs resorted to sighs and then inevitably to yawns. And every time a touching speech appeared, I cringed rather than felt inspired.

Overall, The A-Team basically just stinks. The dialog, performances, script, direction, and writing are just so unnecessarily bland. This is coming from a man who likes mindless action pictures and things that go "boom" in the night. I had zero expectations and went in with an open mind, and I basically just hated this movie. To be honest, I don't understand the appreciation and love for this movie. What was so great about? Yeah, the action set pieces were pretty slick, but that's the only plausible thing about the movie. The fun factor was lacking, and it was lacking big time. Chances are, you're most likely to disagree with me, but the A-team, I believe, is one of the worst movies I've seen this year. Such a huge disappointment.