Beautiful on many levels and even though formulaic manages to arouse the senses.
I expected great things from Pride but I was bowled over by the levels that it hit home. Pride is reminiscent of other great British Comedy dramas, and I say that without remorseful flinching. Often the tag of classic British Comedy is used to promote a movie irrespective of any true consideration, more a simple quality by association rather than affording an objective representation. I am pleased to say that Pride delivers and carves itself the right to associate itself with other great films such as Billy Elliot, Love Actually, Brassed Off, Four weddings and Notting Hill for example. For me its unavoidable feel to Brassed Off. The acting by all the major players is exceptional and "hammed" to perfection, at time pure pantomime, yet at others so tender and subtle that it assists at assimilating the theatrics into the very real life accounts of a truthful yet unlikely marriage of two very unlikely bed fellows. A Lesbian and Gay action group and a community of striking Miners and their families. The association however unlikely on superficial examination isn't quite as absurd as one would think, marginalised and hated by the common media in Thatcherite Britain The film negotiates the story beautifully and engages by a perfect balance of poignant reflection and humour. I grew up in Thatcherite Britain and applauded this as a more truer representation of the legacy of "The Iron Lady" than a recent sensitive Biopic. The film occasionally derails itself at dramatic grabs for belly laughs in true English Seaside postcard style, reminiscent of the Carry On legacy. On the whole though exceptionally well drafted and excellently crafted humanistic review of what it is to unite in a common cause against adversity. Ben Schnetzer, Paddy Considine, Andrew Scott and Dominic West were all standout and brilliant. Bill Nighy was Bill Nighy and the film as all of the films he has been in benefits from it. Jessica Gunning is a delight and rich seam of mined talent as is Faye Marsey. Imelda Staunton is as always exceptional although was a principal in some of the movies overt clumsy grabs for humour. I was prepared to Laugh, I cried at both poles of emotion and thoroughly enjoyed the experience. Brilliant and a must see in my opinion !