A Good Idea Flawed by a Thunderously Bad Script
David Cronenberg has a style with his films that is unmistakable: he is unafraid to address the darker aspects that lie within us all. That he pushes this idea over the limits of viewable film is reflected in some of his popular films such as 'Dead Ringers', 'The Fly', 'Spider', 'eXistenZ', 'Naked Lunch' etc. Yet despite his apparent love of gore he drives home a point that should be considered. Most of the time he works with a good script. For A HISTORY OF VIOLENCE he is hampered by one of the most pedestrian, hackneyed, adolescent scripts trying to pass as a big time movie - Josh Olson's adaptation of the grisly pulp novel by John Wagner and Vince Locke.

Tom Stall (Viggo Mortensen) is introduced to us as the head of a Hallmark happy-wappy family in Indiana - with his wife Edie (Maria Bello), son Jack (Ashton Holmes) and daughter Sarah (Heidi Hayes). Sure, Jack is harassed at school as a 'faggot' by a group of losers, but he takes it on the chin. Tom owns a diner where everybody just loves him - until one day when a couple of thugs disturb the placid boredom of the place and end up dead at Tom's too facile hands. Tom becomes a town hero, but the glow soon fades as big time crime enters in the guise of Fogarty (Ed Harris) plus thugs who enter the diner and confront Tom that he really is one Joey Cusack, a 'previous life' killer from Philadelphia. Tension mounts and ultimately Tom kills the intruders only to come to grips with some realities that are threatening and unpleasant and turn his family 180 degrees against him (in one of the most absurdly written reversals of family commitment ever written) in a fraction of a second. The rest is resolution of the Joey Cusack enigma and then the film just stops.

The actors try to make this mess work but the lines they are required to murmur are just too bad to digest. But if you like gore and battered bodies and spree killings and dark motives with secret agendas, then the film may please. But how it got attention in the first place is a bit difficult to believe. The accompanying featurettes on the DVD show all the secrets behind the gore and include scenes eventually deleted for good reason. Grady Harp