Not recommended for an inquiring mind.
There's basically 2 types of movies: In the 1st type you create a world that is so fictional and different from ours, that the viewer knows to turn off his challenging and logical mind and just go with it. Superman, Avatar, etc.  The 2nd type is set in the real world. Sure it's fiction and I understand that to make this type of movie interesting you have to compound coincidences that wouldn't likely all happen in real life. This type of movie, however doesn't get a free pass on the impossible, just on unlikely.  So here we have a modern setting in suburban small town New York state where 2 girls go missing. So the entertainment value here is watching how people interact and cope with the situation. Here's a few of the things that's hopelessly unreal: Cops don't go to possible dangerous places alone. Instead they call the SWAT team, or call for backup or at least have a partner.  Alex Jones, the kidnapped suspect can do a 10 hour interview with Detective Loki, but can endure days of torture before he says anything to Keller Dover, the crazy father torturer. Doesn't make sense since he's hot the bad guy.  Franklin and Nancy Birch, totally unbelievable. Franklin is led to the torture chamber and voices his disbelief several times before joining in. Franklin tells his wife who doesn't call the cops, no she goes to the torture chamber, tells the other 2 how bad they are and they co-operates with them.  Bob Taylor, another traumatized grown up child victim, acts normal, holds down a job, but collects clothes from current victims, puts blood on them and stores them in locked boxes full of snakes on his property.  So all we have is a story that is not just improbable, but impossible, scene after scene. Much more believable is Obi Wan Ken-obi getting a free pass by wiggling his fingers and saying, "these aren't the Droids you're looking for." That was entertaining. What's entertaining about an impossible fantasy of something so real and horrible as child abduction?