The critics lie! The Mummy was exciting, well made, fun and action pact!
What could have happened to get such a fast angry mob of movie critics and bloggers to so quickly trash The Mummy days before it came out? Well, I saw it and for the life of me could not find much to complain about.

I understand that a persons opinion of a movie is just that, an opinion. Yet a couple of days ago sitting at my desk I start seeing a flood of negative reviews about The Mummy. So I read, and I read, and I continued to read words such as horrible, terrible, worst Tom Cruise movie ever, etc etc. So I decided to go to the movies today and just see this apparent train wreck of a movie. I sat there and was willing to accept what ever apparent "garbage" they threw at me. I mean I managed to stay through the entire Suicide Squad and I have to admit that was a mess, horrible in my opinion because they tried to cram way too many leading rolls down my throat.

So after watching The Mummy do I agree with the premature flood of angry reviews? Reviews I was almost forced to endure on my many devices as if a global event was happening. I was told The Mummy was not good, not good at all in many words. Well the truth is the critics lie and apparently bullying a movie out of the box office is a live and well.

I was actually quite happy with The Mummy. I liked Nicks character played by Tom Cruises who I felt was believable for a fun summer action movie. I enjoyed Jenny, co-star Annabelle Wallis who fit the roll well and did not annoy me like some actors can when it comes to 'running and screaming'. I sat through the entire movie and at one point I actually was looking for something to complain about. I personally did not like Russle Crow as Jekyll because I felt, in all honesty he was too fat for the roll. Sofia Boutella did a great job as the main villain. I could feel her feel her rage and madness and at one moment she made me jump. Guess the 3D helped there.

So, what I have learned is never believe a movie critic until you see the movie for yourself.