A story that could be a realistic one.
I have heard about unforgiven as an 'unexpected classic' and with those comments in my mind I watched the film few days back. It turned out to be a classic at the end unexpectedly.The greatness comes from the story. Not the story lines. But the story that could be felt inside by the viewer. The morale of the story is as simple as that of 'how much you tame your instinct and violence, it sure would come out at sometime'. The story is unpredictable because of its strange characters.William Munny(Eastwood) was indeed once a notorious thief, murderer, gun-man. He shot and killed many of them such that he lost their count. But he was loved by a rich, good woman. She marries him off coming out from her wealthiest mom (why! how come?!). She turns him out into a noble man who never touches drinks and the gun thereafter. They have two kids. Even her death (by smallpox) makes him even nobler ("Claudia, watching up from heaven.."). He, driven by situation, picks up the $1000 reward offer for killing the two who cuts of a night-girl's face out of arrogance. Why these night-girls instead of running off from that worst place and worst boss, announce bounty for those lads who cut them. They wanted to punish the evil young men, in spite of who they are and what they are and their inability to fight against their owner and the sheriff Little Bill (Gene Hackman).The sheriff who was actually strict in holding up the law and order in the town, is not the hero. Because all the goodness he talks does not make one think he is good. Instead he sounds cynical, indirectly supporting the owner of that bar-cum-brothel house. He even punishes those lads not for justice but in favor of the bar-owner.And Ned Logan(Morgan Freeman), who was Munny's ex-partner, married to an red-Indian woman who regards Munny always as a bad person, plays a good friend of Munny and turns Munny finally to be 'unforgiven'.There are lot more characters adding strangeness to the story (schofield kid, Beauchamp, the cut-woman etc). The story at the end stands for Munny; He has a conscience of his own; he has crossed its boundaries for a long time; then retreats to a normal man who strives to live a good-life (to the extent of monogamy); and then flares back but this time his conscience itself crossed the boundaries set by itself, defining new boundaries of his life for one time. One sample for the strangeness of Munny character is this: When they hit the first boy he puts-off the gun fire and ask the other boy to give him water (knowing he might die soon). No matter what I do, good or bad; it is important that my conscience allows me to do it. It is not the external world that decides my goods and bads but my conscience. That is why we see very bad people having very good characters and very good-looking people having very bad characters. Even you did good it is not good enough until your conscience tells you good. And bad things are not bad enough as long as the conscience is OK with it. The movie contains lots of such characters wandering around the story. In real life we see such characters a lot.That is why it is unexpectedly classical in nature.