I object
I had the most delicious sleep during this, which was easily the best thing about watching it. But here's what I didn't miss:  A man is murdered during daylight hours so indiscreetly that a mailman outside hears his screams and sees windows being smashed from inside the relevant room. A considerable time later (What did the mailman do? Nothing?) a suspect flees the scene on foot, covered in blood, cops in hot pursuit, and is caught.  Our hero, a hotshot lawyer we've been led to believe is the smartest guy in any room, signs up as defence attorney - for free - without any explanation of his attraction to what seems such a hopeless case. He then wastes time pleading based on the suspect's untrue version of events, all the while also running psychological tests on his own recognisance, which eventually appear to reveal that the suspect has a split personality.  The woman running the tests claims in court to have no taped evidence of the split personality, even though we've seen her video footage of the personality changing. No matter, the suspect obligingly erupts into the alt personality in court, threatening the prosecutor's life and he's off to a mental institution, which we are led to believe is a very soft option ('He'll be out in two weeks' the prosecutor complains. Really? After being diagnosed with criminal insanity that led to murder?).  Then the hotshot lawyer goes to see his client in the cells and the client gives the game away - he faked the split personality - with a ludicrously obvious slip that it still takes the brainbox lawyer an eternity of screen time to spot (he starts to walk out, stops, thinks hard, returns with incisive lawyerly question). Then the client cackles at him in a way that's supposed to convey what an evil sociopathic genius he is, even though the circumstances of his arrest were originally so damning that, if not for the lawyer's inexplicable intervention, he'd have been on a one-way ticket to the electric chair or lethal injection, and even though he only had the chance to play out his split personality act thanks to the psychological tests he never asked for and even though in order to play it out, he'd had to start off playing the false personality, despite, apparently, having no plan for seeing it through.  And then Richard Gere, as the lawyer, steps out the back of the building into a sort of urban grey void that's meant to say, the bottom has dropped out of his reality, how sobering, even the cleverest among us can be fatally deceived.  At least the stupidities of the plot combined with the cavalcade of glowing reviews here seem to prove something like the film's PT Barnum-esque thesis: people are terribly easily fooled.