A really worthwhile action flick
Faster does not try to be anything it's not. It is a fast paced action flick with plausible performances from all round.I've always liked Thornton as he is very good at playing a drugged out low life. He is perfect for this role. Forget Thornton though, nothing fits better than the role "The Rock" played. A cold mean*** man with big muscles looking for revenge. That's exactly who the Rock is and I could easily say there was no better man for the job! Oliver Jackson-Cohen as the hit-man also played a decent role and I really liked the addition to his role of being "challenged." Maybe I'm not expressing myself very well, but what I think I'm trying to say is that Faster didn't feel corny in any scenes. Like most action films go waaaaaay overboard or some try to mix too much drama into it when it's supposed to be an action flick. I didn't feel any negative element like that linger around in Faster. It's solid action that's believable and although it does have some drama in it, it's woven in quite well, but in any case, the action overpowers any other element the movie may have to offer.Throughout the movie I was actually gripped with tension and it also has a good twist at the end, though the smarter movie goer would probably pick it up early on.I really can't say anything bad about this film besides the fact it's just an action movie, and that's not a negative because that's what it set out to be and that's what it is. No academy performances, no sensational script (but much better than other actions movies because like I said no corny scenes, all plausible), no dodgy romance scenes.By the way, without giving too much of a spoiler, I also really enjoyed the fact how Faster developed a scenario where I expected at least one character's life to turned to ruins, but instead, an unexpected but easily believable resolution was found. Everyone got what they deserved, which is great, and I also got what I deserved: enjoyable action! By the way, this movie no where near deserves a 6.7 rating on IMDb. I know action titles aren't given too much credit, but Faster deserves to be at least 7, probably about 7.2.