Worth a watch if you're bored
It's a thin line between "self-aware" and "self-involved" and it's one the movie treads uncertainly.

The sometimes vague adaptation may leave casual viewers wondering just what was so terrible about Roberts' marriage to dilettantish (but devoted) Billy Crudup. Or how anyone can afford to take off an entire year and simply travel the world. For a spiritual story, there seems to be an awful lot of self-indulgence and privilege.

Is it "Eat Pray Spend"? Maybe just a bit, but at least the pensione Roberts stays in is run-down, and while she seems to have fit a lot of clothes into her limited luggage, there's no obvious fashion porn. This spiritual quest isn't "The Razor's Edge," sadly, but neither is it "Sex and the City 3." (Roberts' flat, worn sandals almost function as a silent rebuke to Sarah Jessica Parker's Manolos.) The best parts of the film, though, are clearly the "Eat" and the "Love." The first third is a virtual advertisement for Rome and its food, full of gorgeous cinematography by Robert Richardson (a regular recent collaborator with Martin Scorsese and Quentin Tarantino). The ancient ruins never looked more alive, the lifestyle never more irresistible.

And in the third and final section, at last the movie moves into the romantic genre it has been avoiding (and its audience has been wishing for) all along. Bardem shows up as an ex-pat Brazilian, sambas start on the soundtrack, and finally he takes Roberts' hand and murmurs, "It's time." And throughout the theater women murmur, "It sure is." Bardem is effortlessly charming and nicely commanding (in what, in romantic dramas, is typically a thankless, objectified role). In fact, all the male performers are very good. (Richard Jenkins has a standout scene as a fellow seeker in India.) Even Roberts, who so often projects mere impatient superiority, rediscovers an on-screen vulnerability.

Of course, some on-screen selflessness would have helped here, too — finding meaning by working in some homegrown charity, perhaps, instead of working on her own bliss in some far-flung country. But, then, this film is Gilbert's book, and Gilbert's book is her life.