As Classic as the original
Remakes, get them wrong and we have crap like Planet of the apes & Psycho. Get them right and you have something that people will remember for decades to come, like this film. Yes i'm sure people worried about this remake of the classic King Kong from the 1930's, Why remake such a classic film! Well I had faith in Peter Jackson director of The Lord of the rings trilogy, he's the right man for the job.

What makes this film so great is that it's not all about the Amazing special effects & CGI, it's also about the acting, the scenery, the music and other aspects of making a great film, King Kong has it all. The performances by the cast was excellent, They such carried emotion & feeling. Naomi Watts gave the performance of her career, I think she really deserved Oscar consideration. Jack Black did an excellent job as the selfish glory-seeking director, many people didn't like his performance but I think he was one of a handful who could pull it off. Adrien Brody was remarkable, he felt so genuine. The rest off the cast did an excellent job in support.

The scenery from 1930's New York to Skull island were magnificent. It looked so real & authentic. Especially Skull Island! that place gave me the creeps, it was a land that was lost in time. You could feel the tension, the dread, danger, and wonder as you entered this forbidden land. Those islanders gave me nightmares, especially the old woman.

Peter Jackson is a man who knows exactly what he's doing. Oh god if it wasn't for him i'm sure this movie would have ended in the trash can of horrible remakes. It Seems he brought some of the magic he used in the Lord of the rings trilogy to this film.

Last but not least what really makes this film so amazing are the special effects. Most notable King Kong! i've never seen a CGI character display so much Emotion, You really found yourself falling for the creature. You could tell if he was Happy, sad, angry, lonely, hopeful; Kong was truly a creature to behold, He acted just like your typical Gorilla, but in the end he seemed so human. It says something how he is originally viewed as a monster, in the end he's really a gentle giant who's terribly misunderstood. When you see him taken from his home and made to be this big attraction, you really feel for him and find yourself rooting for him to lash out at a society that mistreated and misunderstood him. When the end comes you really feel a sense of grief and sadness, my heart broke for the beast in the end.

Overall this film is a true masterpiece, sadly because we live in an age of CGI dominated action films, King Kong might be written off. But this film is so beautiful in so many ways, it has a timeless feeling to it something that the Original gave us. This film has amazing action, drama, love, wonder, charm, and thrills. Yes it is a long movie, but I enjoyed every minute! It deserved the Oscars it won, this is why we go to the movies! Kong is the King!!!