Julia Not Only Eats, Prays and Loves But Also Cries, Meanders and Resonates
Like anyone who has the slightest interest in seeing this 2010 film, I was seduced by the Travel Channel images in the trailer and the sight of a radiant Julia Roberts in her first full-fledged star vehicle since 2003's "Mona Lisa Smile". She appears in almost every frame of this 133-minute emotional travelogue, and the introspective story based on Elizabeth Gilbert's 2006 memoir needs someone of Roberts' star wattage to give it a recognizable pulse. The challenge faced by director/writer Ryan Murphy ("Glee") and his co-screenwriter, former actress Jennifer Salt, is how to make something dramatic out of what is essentially an inward quest toward self-fulfillment without turning the whole venture into a mire of clichés that passes for dramatic structure. They don't actually succeed, but somehow Roberts' goodwill and infectious manner, missing for most of the decade, overcomes much of this obstacle in her sympathetic portrayal of Gilbert.

After a brief preface in Bali where Gilbert interviews a prophetic medicine man who forecasts her love life, the plot begins in earnest with Gilbert's emotional meltdown back in New York six months later. Liz (as the character is called in the movie) divorces her flaky husband Stephen who has upended their marriage with plans to go back to school. She rebounds in a passionate affair with David, a younger actor, but recognizes how she again submerges her own identity in the relationship. In order to halt this recurring pattern and find enlightenment toward her true self, Liz decides to take a trip around the world with three destinations in mind - Italy where she eats, India where she prays, and Bali where she falls in love. Her first stop is Rome, where a young Italian tutor teaches her the art of doing nothing. With the help of her new Swedish best friend, this means accepting the ten extra pounds on her frame due to a steady diet of pasta and pizza. Liz then moves on to an Indian ashram where she receives essential spiritual guidance from a tough-talking Texan named Richard.

She finally comes back to Bali to reunite with the medicine man and then accidentally meets Felipe, a recently divorced Brazilian who may or may not turn out to be her soul mate. Because Murphy and Salt appear intent on remaining faithful to the book, they attempt to cover too much for a feature-length film. Secondary characters become trivialized, and situations become rushed and pat. Take, for example, Liz's relationship with a healer named Wayan in Bali. So moved is Liz by Wayan's plight, she emails all her previous travel acquaintances to send money in order to buy Wayan and her young daughter a house. Yet, we get very little sense of any meaningful friendship between the characters. That's because the movie fails to capture the deep emptiness of Liz's soul that would drive her to make this life-altering journey. This is what the author did better in the source book, i.e., show the underbelly of Liz's despair though insightful comments and some pithy prose. As the movie stands, it's left to Roberts to flesh out the character's emotions without sounding like a whining, privileged woman of means. It's no small feat.

When not providing the sometimes smug narration, Roberts is luminous but not the film's only standout. Even though his character has to provide the hoariest bromides, Richard Jenkins ("The Visitor") manages to bring fiery heart and gravitas to the Texan who forces Liz to take a hard look at herself. As Felipe, Javier Bardem ("Vicky Christina Barcelona") has to play the feminist ideal of the modern man and consequently comes across almost too evolved to be honestly compelling. Less impactful turns are provided by Billy Crudup as Stephen (though his scene at Liz's divorce lawyer's office provides a much-needed edge to the story), James Franco rather morose as David, and Viola Davis ("Doubt") as wisecracking best friend and editor Delia (similar to the role she played in "Nights in Rodanthe"). Robert Richardson provides the rich cinematography that captures the ripeness of each exotic location down to the luscious pastas dishes in Rome. In fact, aficionados of both the Food Network and the Travel Channel will likely rejoice at the visual pleasures in this film. The rest of us will have to make do with Julia in her prime.