Light, enjoyable fare that proves animation is still on top...
... when it comes to producing well-rounded, realised and consistently entertaining movies. Is it just me or have there been no REALLY awful animated films from the stables of the top studios like Pixar and Dreamworks, etc? The movie industry as a whole should perhaps sit up and take notice of the craft that goes into these movies. Both 'suits' and audiences are sure to benefit if that ever happens. Long may the tradition of quality animated movies be, I say! I actually bought a ticket for this last night after finding to my dismay that another premiere, "From Hell", was already sold out by the time I arrived. These are certainly two distinctly different films in theme! I was slightly grouchy, because, coupled with that minor disappointment, I'd had an argument with a friend on the way over to the theatre, and was now proceeding solo. I wouldn't say that "Monsters Inc" made me glad I missed "From Hell", but I still got a solidly entertaining film for my money. I just hope I don't miss "Ocean's 11" next week... For every plus-point to the movie I can also think of a criticism, but on the whole the good points JUST outweigh the bad. The setup may be a little too complicated for younger audiences and the supporting cast of voices is wasted. There was definitely not enough Steve Buscemi, whose bad guy just seemed like an afterthought to all the Keystone Cops esque capers of trying to get "Boo" out of Monstropolis. The script is pitched at a much younger level than "Toy Story" was, and so as a result adults may be bowled over by the animation, but slightly starved in the belly-laughs department. That said, there are still a couple of moments guaranteed to have older patrons guffawing heartily, just not enough for my liking. Even without laughter, the story is still diverting and inventive enough to fix your attention satisfactorily. The movie really comes into its own when the kid is introduced, as thereafter the action rarely pauses for breath.Good as the voice talents of Goodman and Crystal are, it is undoubtedly youngster Mary Gibbs who inadvertently steals the show. Her cute gurgles and shrieks are enough to put a smile on most people's faces and warm their hearts. The job the team did on collecting all her voice samples for the finished movie is nothing short of amazing; indeed, just like the animation achievements were as well. Goodman excels in his voice acting, making "Sulley" a truly memorable character. The animation is wonderful, and at times will make you unable to do anything else but gawp. Techniques in this arena seem to be moving at lightspeed, and in just a few years will make the graphics seen in "Toy Story" seem unremarkable. Just for this factor alone, "Monsters Inc." deserves to be seen, but the likeable (if not always best used) cast and the imaginative plot add an extra dimension that make it worth your time. Nowhere near a "Toy Story" beater for sheer polish and appeal to all ages, but a commendable effort nonetheless. Well done! Altogether now... "Put-that-thing-back-where-it-came-from-or-so-help-me..." !
