An Honest Review (My Opinion)
So I want to begin this review by saying I am new to the Star Wars universe, have seen all the film yet however in saying that ive seen plenty of films to know what is good and what isnt. I watched Episode IV during the Christmas period, with my family (which are Star Wars fans), and i knew if i was every going to watch anything from the series, it needs to be in order.In saying that my experience watching Episode IV wasnt the most jawdropping experience that everyone have made it out to be. It starts off with R2D2 and C3PO traveling through a desert, with no real explanation as to why. If it were entertaining or threw plot at me different story, but it dragged on for longer than it needed to (yes i know it leads to the next scene, but leading up to it was a bore).The next part that took me out of the moment for the movie is Luke's emotional distress when his when his Aunt and Uncle died..... sacasm was strong with this one (pun intended). He had grown up with them for the majority of his youth and they had raised him since his parents died*. The moment he discovered the fate of them, he reaction was priceless that there was basically none. This being an emotional ordeal for most, Luke never seemed phased by this for the rest of the film.This was in my opinion the downside of the film for me, as the begining I feel should really draw you in. It has been a basic story telling tactic since stories began being told, so anyone who says anything about it being how stories were told at the time are clearly wrong. That is why i have given it the score i have, for me the begin is as important as the ending.However i will say the pacing after this point was really good story really picked up and introduced great characters and ended well. Episode V i will say was an amazing movie, that i would watch again. However the same cannot be said for Episode IV.This of course is my personal opinion, if you enjoyed it good on you. However I am not one of them.