The Real End to Star Wars
Return of the Jedi is certainly the weakest of the original Star Wars trilogy, but fortunately we have the redemption of Darth Vader arc which goes and salvages the entire film. Without it the movie would be a disappointment on par with the Matrix 3, Pirates of the Caribbean 3, The Godfather 3, the Hobbit 3, and all of cinema's other failed three-quels.
The road to Vader's redemption is quite bumpy, however. All the Jabba's palace scenes, while relentlessly creative, really add nothing to the overall story and function simply as a protracted and needlessly convoluted procedure into bringing back Harrison Ford. That being said, these scenes are probably where the original trilogy gets closest to its pulpy inspirations as possible-I've read a fair share of 1930s pulp sci-fi, and everything in these scenes (goofy monsters, rancor pit, bikini slaves) simply SCREAMS 1930s sci-fi. It's interesting but ultimately not that necessary.
Once we get to Endor the movie improves. After some sluggish pacing and a perfectly shot speeder bike chase, we finally get to see Luke's confrontation with the Emperor, which is where the movie really succeeds. The scenes with Luke and his father on the Death Star are probably the most powerful of any Star Wars movie ever; they also give the story meaning, and even achieve a moral statement that nearly no American blockbusters even try to show. Kudos to Lucas for pulling that off. (Also, it's not against Vader's character that he turned to the light side; is it so surprising that he would chuck Palpatine down the chasm when the latter was literally trying to get his son to kill him a few minutes ago?)
Meanwhile, the rest of the battle of Endor is pretty excellent. Lucas likes multi-front battles woven together-the Phantom Menace had an even more complex one-and he delivers here. While a second Death Star implies creative bankruptcy, the space battle above it is more exciting and massive than in the original film. The Endor forest battle is controversial, and the Ewoks defeating the Empire's 'best troops' is a little cheesy, but it's still exciting for what it is. (And when watching it for the first time, I was probably one of the only kids who got the references to the Swiss Family Robinson film from 1960.)
Anyway, the fact remains that the ending is perfect for the Skywalker saga, bringing the two previous movies, and yes, the prequels, full circle. Why follow it up with a mediocre sequel trilogy bent on giving all these characters terrible ends? The empire was destroyed forever, and balance was restored. Let them celebrate. They won.