Exploits real suffering, and panders for sympathy without doing anything genuine
This is a hard film to adequately review, because so much is right with it, yet at the same time so much is wrong. Or if not "wrong," at least there are some major tones that simply did not work for me.The cast is spectacular. Emma Stone is not just adorable, but a skilled and marvelous actor. You don't need me to remark that she has a stellar career ahead of her. The rest of the cast includes some of those great character actors you see in the better films, but can't quite remember where you've seen them before. but that's a plus for a character actor, as their appearances, therefore, always seems fresh.It feels very awkward for me to mention the tone that felt wrong. The abuse and inhumane treatment endured by black people 50 years ago is hard to watch today. The pain inflicted, and the behavior of the oppressors can only be called an "evil" situation. One hopes that evolution has done its work, and social justice prevails today. If not perfectly, then at least to a tolerable degree.But that is part of the problem, to me. This film seems to merely recycle old tropes of injustice. It seems to be, as one of my professors used to call it, a "pot stirrer." Lots of agitation and angst and shame and sympathy just for the sake of chaos--- but here it doesn't seem to be authentic. It certainly doesn't seem to go anywhere. It's almost as if the writer has taken an easy issue guaranteed to provoke outrage and anger, rather than doing the authentic, and difficult, artistic work necessary to invoke compassion and healing. This film might be, to be blunt, merely counterfeit social justice. It might be a brazen attempt to "push buttons" for undeserved sympathy. I sincerely hope I am mistaken, and overly unkind.Granted, that's a subtle point. But that's also why I found the theme of the film a bit objectionable- it seemed as if the filmmakers were taking advantage of most people's natural and gut-level decency to elicit an audience response on a tabloid level.Further, who would DARE to criticize this film? It's almost as if it were "criticism proof." Therefore unsound dramatic treatments will go by without comment. Given that I think that was done deliberately, even if somewhat unconsciously, this movie takes an honorable and lofty struggle for which many people suffered and even died, and shamelessly exploits that to make a few bucks at the box office. Think about it- what insights or "new" themes were introduced here? I'd say none. It may be an example of what Plato called "pandering," going for the cheap points via a stimulus-response fest.I hope I am wrong- I hope it is really just a matter of me not responding to this particular cinematic venture. If I am even partly right, however, it bodes ill for our modern shallow and thoughtless "junk media" environment.