A masterpiece - one of the best epic-action films of all time my personal favorite
Aliens (1986) is the best Epic Sci-Fi Classic Action Movie of all time and one of my personal favorite best action sci-fi flicks that I love to death. Just like I love The Terminator and T2, I love this movie to death. James Cameron's classic masterpiece. The now classic science fiction film was only the third feature directed by James Cameron (following Piranha Part Two, The Terminator). It is the sequel to the 1979 film Alien and Alien is a masterpiece I love that film, but I love this movie more sorry this is my personal opinion this is my movie. I am not saying it is better than the original movie but it is right up there with Alien a real classic.

Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver), the sole survivor from the original "Alien", returns to Earth after drifting trough space in hyper sleep for 57 years. Although her story about the Alien encounter is met with skepticism, she agrees to accompany a team of high-tech marines back to LV-426 and this time it's war! It has great cast I love the marines fighting aliens in this movie. The movie stars: Sigourney Weaver, Michael Biehn, Carrie Henn, Paul Reiser, Lance Henriksen, Bill Paxton, William Hope, Jenette Goldstein, Al Matthews, Mark Rolston , Ricco Ross, Colette Hiller, Daniel Kash ,Cynthia Dale Scott and Tip Tipping and they are all believable enough.

I love the characters beside Ellen Ripley, Newt, Corporal Hicks, Bishop, Private Hudson, Private Vasquez, Sergeant Apone, Private Drake, Private Frost, Corporal Ferro, Private Spunkmeyer, Corporal Dietrich, Private Crowe I love those platoon of US Colonial Marines I know I haven't mentioned Burke because he was the bad guy and I don't like him. But most of the characters in this movie I love.

I know it is a sci-fi action film but it also does a have a horror mixed together people just don't see that. There's plenty of horror in it. The nightmare sequence in the beginning, the creepy atmosphere of the LV-426 colony, and the heart pounding face hugger on the loose scene in the medical bay. You see mother of those aliens who cocooned all the humans and killed them you see Ripley finding the nest and fight the Alien queen on the end. Ripley faces her fear and gets over her PTSD by going in by herself to rescue the Girl/Fight the Aliens/and Destroy the Entire Nest...Battles One on One with an Alien Queen and Whips its' Ass...and, by the end, now both her and Newt can dream without the worry of any more Nightmares (which plagued Ripley at the beginning of the film).

This is the finest action movie of all time. And, yet, believe it or not, it's not the action in the film itself that makes this be the case. This is especially odd in a movie with a $100 million budget (in 1986!), with multiple huge explosions, with thousands of bullets fired, and scores from James Horner of stuntmen used.

10/10 I have the Blu-ray disc which it also have a special edition version on it I used to had this film on DVD but I throw it away because I bought the Blu-ray which I am very happy about it. I love this film to death it is my personal favorite sci-fi action film even Lance Henriksen from Hard Target and The Terminator is in here and he is the good guy.