Even after 11 Years, it's still the King.
I first saw The Lion King in 1994, when I was 8 years old. Ever since then, I have seen it at least 100 times. I have seen it at least that much because I watched it once every week for almost a year and a half.

Recently, I became interested in it again, after having seen The Lion King 3 (or 1,5 if you prefer). It kind of surprised me how I was still intrigued and impressed by the whole thing. It was a magical experience that was almost as good as the very first time (I hadn't seen it in years).

Everything about The Lion King is so good, that I can watch it over and over again, just like in the old days. The story begins light-hearted and it has a very nice and fun atmosphere. Very stereotypical characters, as always with Disney, but ever so unique in their own way. As the story progresses, it gets very serious, dramatic and sad as well, I actually cried when I saw it the first time (hey, I was 8, give me a break).

Then two of the greatest characters in the history of Disney cartoons get introduced. Timon & Pumbaa set a new height considering comedy in cartoons. Again, very stereotypical, but unique in their own way (I loved Lion King 3 because of them).

Another thing I absolutely love about this is the awesome music in it. When I was young I didn't pay attention to it as much as I do now, but the music adds so much to the whole movie.

It was very obvious, even from just the intro alone, that Disney worked very hard on this masterpiece. I will definitely never forget The Lion King. I still watch it occasionally and I've never been bored.

That's another thing I like about this: the songs. Every major Disney picture has a few songs in it and most of the time they are very memorable. It's the same story here, the songs are very memorable and overall just brilliant. "Circle of Life" and "Can't Wait to be King" will always have a special place in my heart.

I knew the entire script of the Dutch dubbed version when I was young, having seen it so many times. Kind of pathetic, I know, but I liked it that much. Still do.

The King among Disney Cartoons for me.