An Action Masterpiece. Ridiculous In All The Right Ways. (9.5/10)
George Miller returns to live-action filmmaking with one of the greatest action films ever put to screen. 'Mad Max: Fury Road' is ridiculous in all the right ways. For those who have seen the original films and loved them, you'll fall in love all over again with this film. Tom Hardy takes the reigns this time around as Max - a man of few words who has been hardened by the world in which he lives. Along with him is Charlize Theron as Imperator Furiosa - a woman who seeks redemption by helping five young '"wives" escape from the film's antagonist. Leading up to the film's release, many speculated if this would be just another action film that lacks a solid narrative and motive, but I am happy to say that this is simply not the case. Yes, the film does fill 80% of its run-time with action sequences, but it never gets in the way of the humanity between these characters that Miller has brought to life. There are some emotional moments. Specifically, with Theron's character. Is the story something we haven't seen before? Not at all. But in a film loaded with action, it's nice to see a solid narrative. Now, how about those action sequences? Incredible - exhilarating - jaw-dropping. George Miller has put together some of the greatest, most memorable action set-pieces ever. One thing that sets the action in this film apart from a good majority of mediocre action films today is that every action the character's make have an affect on them. For good and for bad. The action is not pointless. It's motivated. And it's glorious to behold thanks to the use of practical effects, incredible stunt work and stunning cinematography. 'Mad Max: Fury Road' has set a new standard for action films. It's arguably the greatest action film of the 21st century. It's that good. George Miller has brought back what we loved about 80's action films while also brining new ideas to the table. It's the best time I've had in a theater in a long time, and I couldn't help but laugh in appreciation of the ridiculousness that was unfolding before my eyes. The film left me feeling giddy, with a big smile on my face.
