Mix 'n' match comic book mythology
How does Hollywood do it? How do they manage to take really great comic book story lines and dilute them to the point where they're wishy-washy shadows of the source material?

Frank Miller's run on Marvel's DAREDEVIL comic was once of the best pieces of sustained invention in the comics canon. Hardly a foot was put wrong as Miller reinvented the nature of Daredevil's powers and cleverly revised the character's history, giving him a hitherto unknown college sweetheart (if that's the right term) - the wildchild daddy's-girl ELEKTRA.

In this movie version, the film-makers thought it a good idea to take Daredevil's mentor, the blind man "Stick", and make him Elektra's mentor, even though this makes no sense at all. In the comics, Stick teaches the blind Daredevil to develop his other abilities to compensate for his loss of sight, even as Stick himself did. But Elektra has no such handicap, so transferring Stick to the role of Elektra's mentor is a dramatic redundancy.

Then to compound things, the implication (it's not stated outright) is that Stick brought Elektra back to life. That too is at odds with Stick's character. Why would a good guy interfere with the Laws of Nature? In the comics, it's The Hand that brings Elektra back to life for their own selfish reasons.

And my final niggle is how Elektra uses sai as stabbing, offensive weapons. Japanes sai are, in reality, defensive, clubbing weapons, originally used by civilian peacekeeping officers (like today's police) to defend against samurai swords. The curly handguards of sai are designed to trap and break sword blades. Often sai had just one curly handguard rather than two. The long "blade" section would have been a steel rod with no edge and a blunt point which was used in a clubbing action against rowdy or drunk sword-wielding nuisances.

Granted, this last one is not the fault of the film-makers, as Frank Miller's DAREDEVIL comic also showed sai being used for stabbing. But the opportunity to correct the error was missed with the movie version of ELEKTRA. To see sai used correctly, seek out a copy of ZHONG HUA ZHANG FU (aka HEROES OF THE EAST) and watch master martial artist Chia Hui Liu (aka Gordon Liu, of KILL BILL fame) and his butterfly knives go up against a Japanese sai fighter (Yasutaka Nakazaki).

But in all fairness, these are minor niggles. Overall, ELEKTRA is pretty entertaining - at least as good as DAREDEVIL, if not a little better. It's just that, given the excellence of the source material, it should have been a whole lot better. But then, Hollywood has always been pretty useless at doing martial arts films ...