It's awesome, believe it or not!
This movie has Jason Statham drop-kicking orcs, has flaming orcs used as catapult ammunition, has Burt Reynolds in a ridiculous oversized helmet looking exactly like an imperial town guard from Morrowind (his King's Guard also consists of domino-wearing dual-wielding ninjas who always enter a scene with special fanfare), and many other goodies too: John Rhys-Davies playing Gandalf, Ray Liotta as a very campy villain with a funny accent, a whole gang of forest-dwelling... er... amazons??... with vine-commanding powers Tarzaning around the woods, and Ron Perlman too, leading a pig on a leash before kicking orc ass himself. C'mon people, give Uwe a chance. This movie is awesome.

We also get Claire Forlani as Statham's wife, Leelee Sobieski in plate armour, why not, a comic relief secondary villain who wants to be king, and Mike Dopud -- Stargate fans, for one, will know his name -- doing his best bearded impression of an Anglo-Saxon warrior. Oh, and let's not forget that Jason Statham, who is so very important in the final act, is never given any armour and fights in the thickest of mêlées in a cloth shirt. I guess the armour might hamper his ability to drop-kick orcs and run on their shoulders... or was that some other film?...

This movie is Uwe Boll's masterpiece. With a very high budget (especially compared to its atrocious sequels), it's Boll's "Lord of the Rings". Massive battles with actual actors, costumed orcs in fairly large numbers, sweeping shots and good matte paintings. Don't get me wrong, this movie is very far from the quality of the actual LotR films, but still manages to be truly entertaining and fun.

Don't take it too seriously, don't go in expecting a cinematic masterpiece, and don't let Boll's infamy cloud your judgement. This one is worth a watch... even two in my case, as I rewatched it years after seeing it for the first time, and was thoroughly entertained throughout; I'll probably rewatch it again after a few more years and enjoy it greatly once again.

I swear to God, it's ridiculous how much Burt Reynolds looks like one of the guards in Seyda Neen in Morrowind (that's "The Elder Scrolls III", a game from 2002, for those not in the know). It's glorious and I can't take him seriously at all.

This film is much, much better than people give it credit for. The same is not true for other Boll movies, I concur, but this one is pretty entertaining -- a perfect storm of ludicrous and wonderful. I thoroughly recommend it.