Indecent Proposal makes for a decent comedy... go figure
Elvises... so many Elvises. You know when you're looking for some quality films to add to your collection at the local video-store, you can't seem to find any good films, or even any you've heard about, and you stray over to the bargain bin, looking for some cheap film so you don't have to go home empty-handed. That was what happened with this film, for me, at least, and I fear it will happen for many other people. There's no good way to warn people about the dangers of such a casual way of buying films, so I just hope people will look past the three familiar faces on the cover and smell the stench of this turd of a film. The plot is an obvious rip-off of Indecent Proposal(the book, not the movie... I know this came out first), and it's quite poorly written, for coming from so good source material. It's basically a cat-and-mouse game with Caan trying to keep Cage away from Parker, trick her into staying with him, moving back and forth whilst he has people slowing Cage down. The acting is overdone and uninspired. Cage yells and goes off in fits of rage every few minutes, Parker basically just stands by and looks pretty while going back and forth between the two men(emotionally, not literally), and Caan just does his gangster-shtick. The dialog is vapid. The chemistry is close to non-existent. The many Elvises in the film, as well as the two main settings, Las Vegas and Hawaii just shows how hard the director tries to sell this film. He can't think up good scenes or interesting characters, so he just throws in stuff he figures everybody likes. Everyone likes Elvis, right? Yeah... when there's one of him, and he can actually sing. Every song by him on the film's score is sung by other people(probably because they didn't want the hassle of buying the rights to use his vocals along with his lyrics). In short; the film just isn't funny. It tries way too hard, and winds up looking like some under-produced unknown little 80's comedy with either actors who can only do one character or actors who have never worked, neither before nor later. Caan, Cage and Parker deserve better. I just wish they would have realized how awful it was going to turn out and not signed on to do the film. Instead, I stand here with about 90 minutes of my life almost completely wasted... and I urge you to take heed, follow my warning... don't make the same mistake I did. Don't watch this movie, don't buy it, or any other's you don't know anything about, no matter how cheap they are. You were warned. I recommend this film to insipid people who don't understand subtlety in humor(which this film has none of). Everyone else... go see Indecent Proposal instead. Or not. Just don't watch this one. 5/10