How to ruin a good idea.
This movie actually has an interesting story, a not entirely, but at least partly original idea. It should be a good movie about aliens hunting down other aliens on earthly settings. Well its not a good movie AT ALL. Oh boy is this one baaad...., this made me really angry... First of all, the main character is a totally unlikable little sissy boy. The actor has no talent at all he has like three facial expression: the "I am messed up"-look, the "I am angry"-look and don't forget the "awww I am totally like a cute puppy, are you girls feeling hawt already?"-look and that's about it. Not just the actor, but the character is unlikable too. He is supposed to be a survivor, a teen from another planet, who is super-duper strong and one of the last of his kind. And does he have a sense of nobleness or class? No. Does he have a sense of danger or urgency? No. When it is established that the same race, which destroyed his home, is out to kill him, does he listen to his mentor's advice and stays home? OF COURSE NOT. He keeps whining, that he needs to blend in and stuff. When an entire group of outer-space assassins are out to kill you, and they already killed almost every single one of your race, don't you have more pressing matters, than go to school and try to be the "kool" jet-sky flipping kid?.... For example, like... I don't know...Planning to escape the situation? Train yourself for battle? Plan a revenge? Oh come on, that's not so interesting for teenage girls......They want to see the UFO go to high school and jet-sky, because he is so hawt......So he shall do that...Its pretty bad when the only thing you can think of to do with your main character is blatant fangirl-service. Go ahead little fangirls get offended and rate me down for this, but this is PATHETIC. Oh and if you want to make another crappy "nerds and jocks and love in high school with odd girl and hawt boy" its okay, fine by me, BUT don't LIE to me with a trailer like this movie had. The trailer promised an action packed sci-fi movie and 40 minutes into the film I had to listen to god awful dialoge about odd-girls photographing habits and even more awful scenes with odd-girls parents having little family dinners with UFO pretty boy...What the....??? I am sick and tired of these holly-jolly pink teenage love stories, please don't try to force them down on my throat when I am promised to see a movie about aliens fighting for their lives. I could go on about how unimaginative all the aliens (good and bad alike) were, or how this movie had the most awkward dialogue I heard in years, or how stupid it is that after UFO boys little light-show on the beach or in the class-room nobody really cared. In reality after a show like that on a beach at night during a party, well it would draw much more attention and it would be in the news for days... But why talk about these things, this movie flat out lied about its intentions and it is sad and pathetic.