A Cult Cinema Star is born
I'll start off by saying that I love this movie. I'm sure there will be a huge critical backlash against it, which is too bad, because it is the sort of movie that is very rare these days. I Know Who Killed me is a cult/camp classic in the making, and will hopefully be recognized as such. I saw this movie last night in San Francisco. Everyone in the audience seemed to be having a good time, but when we were leaving the theater I overheard lots of people saying things like "I was laughing the whole time. It was so bad!" Honestly, I'm pretty baffled as to what these people expect when they go see a movie like this and have that reaction. From all the publicity I saw for this movie, I can't see how anyone could justify thinking that it was going to be some sort of high art psychological thriller in the vein of the Shining, or Vertigo. I was sort of afraid that it would be another one of those mediocre thrillers that take themselves too seriously (Murder By Numbers, Premonition), but instead I was delighted. The movie has a real sense of humor about itself and does not disappoint when it comes to absurd twists and turns and moments of glorious camp. Fans of Grindhouse,Evil Dead, and of Rob Zombie's movies will probably be won over by this movie. Miss Lohan should be proud of herself for her work in this. Despite her recent legal troubles, her role in this film gives me hope that she could have a fruitful career ahead of her if she plays her cards right. The first part of the movie, in which Miss Lohan plays over achiever Aubrey Fleming, is probably the weakest section. It has some entertaining parts (like the strip tease from the creepy gardener character), but overall, it is hard to think of Lindsay Lohan as a straight A student from small town America. However, the movie, as well as Miss Lohan's performance takes a strong turn for the best when she transforms into Dakota Moss, the sassy stripper with a troubled past. Even though the days of Mean Girls have long past, we are reminded that Miss Lohan has great comedic timing, and a strong screen presence. The character of Dakota has a very appealing bluntness, and Miss Lohan is perfect at portraying this. She and Rose McGowan are certainly in close competition for the title of Cult Cinema's Queen, but unlike Ms McGowan Ms Lohan is truly a talented actress. I hope to see her in more movies like this. Although I don't want to spoil the ending, I will say that the final scenes, after we know who the killer is, are downright hilarious. Also, this movie has one of the best final shots I've seen in a long time. If you're a fan of camp, ridiculous gore, general absurdity, and sick of generic Hollywood thrillers with no sense of humor, then I know Who Killed me will be a real treat for you.
