Mediocre, but it's about ethics so it'll be praised.
First off, the situation; a prison exists with inmates paired in cells. A single food platform moves down each day and you only get what the people above leave, so the lower you get the more likely you are to starve. Each month the inmates are randomly shuffled to different levels. If your cellmate dies you get a new one in the shuffle.

Now great, it's metaphorical, but it's the kind of plot that has that hitch right from the start. This would never happen, be approved, or continue to operate. Ok, whatever, suspend disbelief and go with it (which you have to because no explanation is ever offered except "the people running it don't care," and cellmate #2 shows us people working for the organisation don't even know the full extent.)

The main character goes in voluntarily (showing that outsiders have no knowledge of how it operates, despite prisoners being released after their sentence) for 6 months in exchange for a degree. A degree in what? Never mentioned. How being in prison is somehow a degree? Never mentioned.

The movie just leaves so many important facts completely unaddressed because they know it's so nonsensical that they could never offer a satisfactory explanation.

So the last section of the film has the main character and cellmate #3 riding the platform down to the bottom sharing out food equally, finding most of the lower layers dead, and attempting to keep a panna cotta intact as a 'message' to the admin that they protest. I really fail to see how that sends any form of message at all. A full platform maybe, but "oh hey we didn't eat one thing" is a pretty dull protest. At the bottom they find a child and feed her the panna cotta and send her back up on the platform instead.

So your message is "we can ride the platform up." You think people didn't try that? It's a kid so magically they'll grow a conscience and everyone's let out?

Overall it's just such a poor attempt at being deep and questioning morals, but because it's really artsy everyone will rave about it. I wish people had better standards for movies than just having it try to make a statement in a nonsensical, boring way.
