Excellent political/social themes, okay plot, OTT effects and great performances
T'Challa ascends to the throne of Wakanda and takes the mantle of Black Panther.

This is an entertaining and thought provoking superhero origin story with a number of solid performances.

The plot is reasonably strong with a structure that resembles a mashup of The Lion King, James Bond and traditional Marvel heroism. For me the best aspect of it are the political and social themes that underpin the characters and their motivations. To have a story so explicit about the historical treatment of African peoples and the plight of African communities around the world as a main stream cinematic event is a breath of fresh air.

There are numerous strong, positive, non-clichéd, male and female African characters, in a movie led by an African Marvel superhero. The main protagonist journeys through an arc that leads him to an important decision that impacts the entire world. The antagonist is complex and fighting a cause worth fighting for, but in the wrong way. Through this it delivers an important message that is very relevant in today's divided world.

Within the seriousness there is a lot of humour through dialogue and performances. Shuri has some great moments of witty banter along with Everett Ross and M'Baku.

The visuals are for me a mixed bag. I love the cinematography, colours, lighting and editing in many scenes. Whilst the effects are brilliant in some parts I find the CGI action spectacle at times to be cartoonish, distracting and over the top. This for me hurts a film that carries such importance, as the messages get lost in mess of video game type spectacle.

On a more positive note, the performances from all cast are excellent. Chadwick Boseman is every inch the title character, whilst Michael B Jordan is up there with the best of the Marvel antagonists. The supporting cast are superb with Lupita Nyong'o, Letitia Wright, Danai Gurira, Angela Bassett, Andy Serkis, Forest Whitaker, Winston Duke, Daniel Kaluuya and Martin Freeman all perfect in their respective roles.