Disappointed.
Warning: Spoilers
Read the book before watching this movie! I got it book for my birthday, and I was absolutely amazed. Read it in 2 days,literally, and after I've heard about the movie, normally I was excited and expected so much. Oh boy was I wrong. Matt Damon and all the other actors did an amazing job, but what I didn't like is that they stretched out the movie and also they missed some important parts of the movie. Like, for example they didn't show at all how he ***SPOILER*** changed the rover and how he had problems with the drill. They missed the sandstorm part. They missed the part where the rover flips. And that may not be a critical part for the story but I think the movie would be so much better if they added that. Also, they could've worked so much on the main character. He is showing zero emotions. He never talked about how he misses his family,wife (?) nor anything on the planet Earth. He didn't care too much if he survived or not. He realized that he had the chance to survive but also had a chance of not surviving and was not to shocked by the situation. From the very beginning he is very calm. I don't think that's a realistic scenario. I mean he just woke up on a deserted planet with a satellite antenna in his chest and he just walks right back in the habitat and just stitches himself without showing much shock or any other emotion .

They made him so relaxed that he even started making really bad jokes. Would be a lot better if you did the whole "I just woke up on Mars and I don't know how will I survive" part better Sorry, but that's a big problem. Second thing that bothered me:science facts. This is a minor problem, but the movie is crowded with scientific facts. That didn't bother me but I think that it's not really suitable to use some of the facts and "science talk" when doing a movie that's aimed to the general audience. There may be a lot of people who didn't understand some of the parts of the movie because of that.

That's my personal impression. Now I don't want to be too negative so I also want to add a couple of bright sides of this movie: filming, editing,special effects. I was really impressed by the filming, I have to admit. Overall I'm not satisfied.So much potential yet they blew it.I would compare this movie to the movie Gravity. Such a good story yet they didn't meet the expectations of the general audience.