Masterpiece! The greatest Vampire flick ever made!!!!
The Lost Boys (1987) is one of the best and the greatest vampire flick's ever made! A true Schumacher masterpiece and a classic horror film! I love The Lost Boys so much, it is one of the best true horror movies ever made from the 80's! I always loved this movie since I was a child and the vampires in here are awesome! It encompasses everything that was so silly and cheesy and fun about the 80's. The hair, the clothes, the music, the attitude - it seemed like nobody ever took themselves too seriously in that time. Hell, look at Tim Capello's cameo in the movie, for Christ's sake! Super oiled-up buff sax-playing dude in tight purple spandex? Only in the 80's!

The story is about Michael (Jason Patric) and his brother Sam (Corey Haim) who move together with their mother to stay with their grandfather in Santa Carla, California. One day Michael meets a girl and falls for her to know later that she is with a gang of guys who are vampires. They give him wine mixed with blood and Michael drinks it without knowing what it contains. Things change for Michael and he finds out the truth. He tries his best to resist the urge of becoming a vampire and fights it with the help of his brother Sam. This vampire movie is the epitome of excellent humor/horror. Just when you are sitting on the edge of your seat getting ready for the next scary scene you get a joke or a snide remark. As you are relaxed by the humor, you get hit with a nail bitter of a scary scene. The soundtrack is one of the best I've ever heard; some of my favorite music came from this soundtrack.

One of my favorite movies that I ever love a true classic, I think for once Joel Schumacher did a great job as the director, He screwed up Batman & Robin (1997) but he made this movie right! This film is probably the best vampire movie I have ever seen, one of my favorites and the soundtrack was awesome loved Cry Little Sister and all of the tracks. The cast all around was very solid too I think probably the best cast for a vampire movie yet. I miss the 80's classic films, like one of them was Fright Night (1985) this movie is released 2.years later and it is another Vampire movie and right behind him. Gosh I want more Vampire flicks from the 80's like this one is. The Lost Boys is like Twilight of it's late 80's day. The difference between the two is that Lost Boys is a rock-n-roll vampire flick mixed with some goofy humor to make it the cult classic is has become ever since it came and went from theaters to VHS.

In this film are famous stars like are Jason Patric, Corey Haim, Kiefer Sutherland as Jack Bauer from 24 (2001) TV show, one of my all time favorite TV shows. Corey Feldman and of course Alex Winter he played in Death Wish 3, Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure and it's sequel Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey gosh I miss those movies. Why can't they make movies like are this ones today? The Lost Boys, Fright Night, Death Wish 3, Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure, Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey are classic movies where are they now?

Sleep all day. Party all night. Never grow old. Never die. It's fun to be a vampire. When a single mother and her two sons move to the sleepy seaside California town of Santa Clara, they discover much more than they anticipated in this visually stunning blend of hip humor, horror and rock 'n' roll about the most compelling group of contemporary vampires ever to put fang to vein. That is actually the basic plot of the film!

The Lost Boys is a 1987 American horror comedy film starring Jason Patric, Corey Haim, Kiefer Sutherland, Jami Gertz, Corey Feldman, Dianne Wiest, Edward Herrmann, Alex Winter, Jamison Newlander, and Barnard Hughes.

Anyway I am giving this film a 10/10 because the film deserves it and it doesn't deserve to be bashed and hated from people! I love this film to death I love it!!!