They're STILL dragging out this desperation?
Wow, could a show possibly be on more borrowed time life support?? It's funny that SOOOOOO many people on here say that this film should have come out ten years ago, when it actually would have mattered and could have possibly been funny, because I was thinking the exact same thing! What does that tell you? People have too much emotional attachment to the show to admit that this film is awful. They mindrape themselves into thinking anything and everything with the Simpsons' faces plastered on it is good, much like female fans of Johnny Depp do. If the film was 90 minutes of the Simpsons sitting on the couch and blinking their eyes, they would say "oMg BeSt MoViE eVeR!". How pathetic! Yes, it's been said already many times, but I'm thinking it so I'm saying it; it is straight up a 90 minute episode of the godawful past 11 seasons. Cheap and forced jokes, bowel movement references, lots of obnoxious loud noises, and just plain lame, unfunny nonsense. Topical humor that will be outdated in a few short years, pointless celebrity cameos and references, and anything else catering to the modern pulse. Too bad the generation after us won't relate to any of the humor so that damns the film into not being timeless at all! Hmm, how many borrowed clichés from the show did we see? Marge threatening to leave Homer, Springfield on the brink of disaster, an angry mob, the Simpsons on the run, Homer falling in love with something not human, discord between Bart and Homer, Lisa falling for a boy... I doubt that's all! Desperation has replaced, dignity, guys. Force yourself to like this all you want, you're just embarrassing yourselves! Another poster referred to the type of people who put everything else on hold (like cutting their plans short) on Sundays to watch the horrible new episodes of the show as "Simpsons zombies". I'll take it a step further and say "Simpsons martyrs", as the word martyr is more jarring to Western culture with this so-called "war on terror". Seriously, why not martyr yourselves for a cause more worthwhile, like say stopping the clubbing of baby seals or the shoddiness of Jaguar since Ford took over?

All you die-hard fans who force yourselves to continue liking this misery should go and form Simpsonsbollah!