Truly Appalling
While perusing the other entries for this film, the preponderance of reviews giving it a mildly enthusiastic or at least average rating astounded me. I find it inconceivable how someone could appreciate this movie on any level. While it featured decent acting, it contained a plot so awful that it makes it impossible to respond with even the most minute degree of enthusiasm.

The plot centers around a "Sin Eater," an individual who, by performing an arcane ritual, is able to secure salvation for those outside the church who would otherwise go to Hell. While operating in this capacity he is immortal, but he has grown weary of bearing the sins of others and desires to find a replacement so that he may die in peace. He attempts to cultivate a young priest for this role, and the film deals with the ensuing events.

While I have no desire to express an opinion here on theological issues in real life, I found it preposterous that, within the world of this film, salvation really does come only through the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church. Though the movie depicts the Church in the most unfavorable way possible, within its frames the Church alone apparently truly does hold the key to salvation. This fact necessitates the burdensome task of the sin eater, and thereby establishes the premise of the film. But it also raises questions about how anyone (in the film) exposed to such a wicked Church or God could accept the doctrine that salvation comes no other way. A person who believed that salvation came through the Church alone would likely be a member of the Church, and adhere to its teachings; someone outside the Church would not likely believe that the Church alone provided salvation. Yet for the sin eater to function, The Order's cinematic world must be populated by many people who both:

a) believe that the teachings of the Church are entirely correct, and b) reject those teachings nonetheless.

Ultimately, The Order depicts hapless clergy and laity alike, viciously excluded from salvation by a tyrannical Church which regards not even God's power as sufficient to overcome their deeds. If anything, this movie offers an unintentional apologetic for the Protestant doctrine of salvation by faith alone.

Watch this movie with friends and laugh, or don't watch it at all.