Nothing happening here...
Elektra, or, as I know her, "that chick from Daredevil who turned up in Wolverine's solo book once or twice". So, 'Daredevil' wasn't THAT bad. It served me well as mild entertainment once or twice. I figured that 'Elektra' might also pass as amusing - after all, it promised to be about ninjas, and I do love a good ninja movie.

After carking it in 'Daredevil', Elektra (Jennifer Garner) is brought back by her master Stick (Terence Stamp). She becomes an assassin for hire, but while on an assignment, she becomes fond of her supposed targets Mark Miller (Goran Visnjic) and his thirteen year old daughter Abby (Kirsten Prout), and decides to protect from the Hand, a shadowy underworld organization of ninjas with freaky powers. Led by Kirigi (Will Yun Lee), a small group of the Hand's elite set out to finish Elektra's job and Elektra too.

Woah, so I never thought a movie all about good ninjas and bad ninjas involved in some sort of ninja war could be so boring. 'Elektra' turned out to be a character-driven ninja movie, instead of a ninja-driven ninja movie. I don't mind a non-action movie every so often, but 'Elektra' was presented a full on action movie, and that was all I wanted in the middle of doing university assignments and studying for tests. Basically, it followed the same style as 'Hulk', but was less exciting.

Jennifer Garner spends long periods of the film standing around looking bored, and generally giving out a performance one might usually expect from someone like Steven Seagal. Her Elektra was much more interesting in 'Daredevil' than in 'Elektra'. Despite an entire film about her, you really don't learn anything about the character: At one point Abby mentions that Elektra has OCD, but it just seems pointless and is never referred to again. The other characters get shafted too: Elektra's apparent love interest makes very little impact on the movie, and all we know about the villains is that they are ninjas with freaky powers. No explanation, no origin, nothing.

There is barely enough action in 'Elektra' to even qualify as an action. Much of the time wasted on following the character's around as they do nothing could have been used to beef up 'Elektra' as an action film. As it stands, they were pretty ordinary and almost nowhere to be seen. I mean, a few more extended fight scenes could have made 'Elektra' amusing at least.

'Elektra' isn't as terrible as Marvel's 'Nick Fury' movie, but it doesn't come close to some of Marvel's more awesome movies, like 'The Punisher'. At best, 'Elektra' is barely average: very little happens