Metropolis Echoes Nietzsche and Book of Genesis
Metropolis screenwriters utilize silent and black and white effects to present a post-war, Marxist critique. They highlight not only class dualisms, but basic temptations of human knowledge. Metropolis' construction of fragile human nature echoes Nietzsche's paradigm of the over man as well as the Biblical account of creation.

Freder's naive portrayal embodies the fragility of human nature. His previously exaggerated facial expressions lose animation when he is caught with the young woman and banished from his father's house. His entrance to his father's boardroom in a white shirt symbolizes innocence. The terror in approaching his father, asking what it's like to be dismissed, shows childlike sensitivity and desperation.

Freder's acting style seems minimalist by today's standards. Yet his exaggerated facial expressions, gaudy make-up, and melancholy demeanor at the beginning position him as a catharsis for understanding the World War I generation.

This once genteel young man is shell shocked to see machines operating and exploding. The utopian, frivolous garden world he once enjoyed is a burden as greater knowledge makes him aware of the workers' plight. Similarly, World War I was initially perceived as a swift triumph of intellectualism and military might to end all wars. Trench warfare and combat machinery developed, but Germans were surprised when the war and its consequences lasted much longer. References to war trauma are conveyed as workers march facing the ground and drag gurneys through an explosion site.

These scenes carry generational messages subtle to today's audience. The film accurately portrays the identity struggle soldiers faced within the expectations of urban economized culture. Within this context Nietzsche's over man paradigm developed, conveying man's joy and suffering as the same in an unequal world. The quest for knowledge to resurrect Freder's mother as a machine echoes Nietzschean impulse for man to take vengeance overcoming social adversity.

As a man-made machine intercedes for the plight of underground workers, characters expect knowledge and machines to replace God's vengeance. The Tower of Babel is referenced as Freder flees his father. Such symbolism awakens understanding of the temptation of man made machines and presumptions to address social inadequacies.