Graduation Flashed right by Them!
Really, this is a very tame, innocent sexploitation movie from 1979, and because it sets it sights realistically low with the material and talent involved - is way more fun that what it might have been otherwise. From one of the opening scenes involving a prank where a bunch of graduation gowns are ripped off the lovely graduates at a small school - all blonde with real nice breasts to the end, Gas Pump Girls has heart if nothing else. Well, there are plenty of the aforementioned breasts and tightly-packed buns in short shorts too. The story is incredibly simple. A bigger, better, more elite gas station opens up next to Joe's gas station - a small, independent operation by none other than Bowery Boy legend Huntz Hall himself. One of the perky blondes is his niece and when he has health problems, she comes up with an idea to use sex to sell gas....not the act of sex but rather girls in skimpy outfits and no bras filling up, etc... That really is it except for one scene with Sandy Jonson and one of the male graduates in a car getting its brakes fixed getting, how shall we say, a head start on the action if you will. The movie never gets nasty or offensive. For a movie like this it is what I would call a G sexploitation movie in spirit.

Gas Pump Girls, for what it is, is rather fun. You know what to expect before you start watching, and I was pleasantly surprised by some minor comedic touches by legend Huntz Hall and other cameos by Joe E. Ross and Mike Mazurki as contract killers. Dave Shelley as the competing gas station manager Mr. Friendly seems to have the most fun chewing up scenery, but before we get too lost here - the film is about the four or five girls who run around either bare-breasted a good deal of the film or in those lovely short shorts. They are the stars if you will, and none of them stand out better than Sandy Johnson from H.O.T.S and Halloween(as Judith Myers) fame. A joy to behold for sure. The music soundtrack is interesting and even at one point one of the girls just breaks out singing a song. It is what it is. The deejay on the radio throughout is Cousin Brucie.