Overall an interesting watch,.... but horrendous ending makes it fall flat.
Okay, so I'm sure you've by now heard that the ending was horrible. And that the film itself is a testament to the rich above the poor and the needs of many are always wanting.

But let's talk more about the ending. Up until there was around fifteen minutes in the movie,... I would've given it a 7-8 stars. But this ending,... oh god this horrendous crap on your time ending.

So they make it to the bottom floor, and the table stops. Okay, fine sure. But apparently somehow a little girl was the only person there, not another person and nor a body nor blood marks. Weird since EVER floor since has been two people to a floor. Then we look at the little girl they find. Completely clean,... I mean pretty much spotless like she was JUST put there today. She doesn't talk, and she doesn't comprehend the give and take of the floor she was at,... which just leaves more questions. Like why didn't Miharu ever find her since she's gone down the floors MANY times,.... did she just give up around floor 200 because,... even more reasons we'll never know?

Now,... they stay and the food is given to the girl. Which until that point would cause the room to kill it's inhabitants,.... but somehow doesn't now.

OFC Baharat randomly dies off camera in such a lackluster way that it makes you want to forget the fact that he gave up his floor 6 privileges to follow some random white dude down 200+ floors,.... to ration out food. Because,... reasons I guess.

Now, to add FURTHER annoyance to the end. You sat there and watched this huge build up of the final half hour of the movie, expecting some big revelation or changes to be had. Only to be given the mother of all middle fingers in the form of a self-sacrifice of the MC. Because once more,.. reasons.

Now to point out something small that's just a mind bender. That table is FLYING upwards at super high speeds,..... how did they know it wouldn't just come to a complete stop at the end and send the contents slamming into the ceiling. There's literally no knowledge here. They could've just killed that little girl for a "message".

In the end,.... the ending itself just makes you draw your own conclusions and cops out it's ending. It could've been a great movie if not for this.
