"This is an EX guinea pig movie!"
This new Walt Disney feature, yes, this is a Walt Disney production as it is a Disney distribution, has to be the biggest exercise in pointlessness in movie-making, period. There used to be a time when the Disney moniker stood for quality, originality, intrigue and fun, sadly, with the help of a tiny group of guinea pigs this quality of leadership has withered away.

Competing with the kiddie market with animated / live action films as Warner Bros. Cats & Dogs (2001), Universal Pictures Small Soldiers (1998) and Who Framed Roger Rabbit (1988) from Amblin Entertainment (and the Disney Studios too) for example, this, G-Force is far beyond what is to be expected from this iconic studio. There was a time when Disney's reputation took them far and wide with respectability, with the animated / live action film as Bedknobs and Broomsticks (1971), for example, there was an era when quality mattered.

Kids should find this entertaining, fun even, but this is a film that should be seen on the "Children Television Channel", as this certainly is not one for the older kids, the attention span may just be tested, and older kids just may find this a rather dull affair. There just is not enough happening here to warrant any age older than this to possibly enjoy it, there are other films on the market, to date, to take the older kids to.

With this latest add-on, we see a script that is far too monotonous, far too unrewarding in entertainment value and exceedingly too uncaptivating, for any mind over the age of seven to say the least. Under this age range, it is the sum of its parts that sells this film, fluffy rodents that play James Bond and in turn, too, are searching for the reason of being.

The Disney ethos of the lost finding themselves, the virtuous crashing through the plight of evil and the traditions of family and friends are, once again, as expected, at the centre of it all, an ever perpetual trait that is still ever present. However, the message here still feels wafer thin, lost in a sea of mundane mediocrity that seems only to plug the gaps of a poor script, weak plot and extremely tiresome film overall. Take away the rodents and we are seriously left with an empty and, again, pointless excuse in film making. By taking it back to the pet shop whence it came and demanding a refund, and in doing so, you may find other more rewarding works of art.