Have had worse..
Personally I found this movie wrong and stupid from every possible angle. Though, it wasn't the excitement nor the interest, i have pulled through til the end.. was a heroic task to be honest. The idea and the basic plot was a promising one. Too bad they had to screw up at every key point:
the actors and actresses had no chemistry, and the leading characters were downright annoying
irrelevant side-plots: like why was it important to share the info on the debts of the father? Why was uncle Matt forced into the movie with a cheesy exuse - just to be killed 5 and 35 minutes later(s)? Not to mention the boyfirend...
stupidity all over the place: and both our heroes and the attackers fell into this hole every single time. I mean, c'mon! I am not even going into the typical mistakes, and stupidity happening in most of the horror movies. But why was I forced to accept that the tragic hero(ine) in this movie should be the whiny little brat, who has absolutely no interpersonal skills, makes no sense in any conversations, whines and cries through 90 minutes of the movie, and does absolutely no contribution towards escaping or in any way improving their situaition. She, then, explores the fact that the bad guys targeted her and want her to rise from her prison to be much more, to release her true power. Yep, like that's gonna happen.. with a pregnant minor... And even after this point she fails to contribute to their situation in any way. Her brother, on the other hand, was the only one being able to kill one of the attackers, despite the fact he didn't even wash his hands after peeing. And also there's the camera question. I mean how many cameras were installed? About a hundred? And yet you can't notice one single camera, but you can notice a patch of paint i still fail to comprehend! You've gotta be super-stupid guys, sorry to have to hear this from me.
lack of violence, blood, suspense and any horror elements: okay, there were like 2 jumpscare scenes, but literally, that's all. The movie is unfolding so slow, and using so cliché elements, so that actually all the suspense and fear is killed off. The ways of killing people are not creative at all - except may be one, but I am still not convinced if that was a proper way of killing someone. All in all the movie itsel was like a horror made for kids, under the age of 12.
The 3 stars is for trying only. But the fun stops there. The result does not worth your time. Better go and watch Saw episode 156