Four average episodes stretched into eight
If The Flight Attendant (TFA) was to be THE premiere original content from The Phone Company - I mean HBO Max - they have a long way to go. No one could ever blame Kaley Cuoco for wanting to shed her BBT image, but this limited series was, well, limited.To be fair, there were a couple of good things. If you wanted to hear Cuoco drop the F-bomb, this was your show! And you got to see some of her tattoos hidden on BBT. But TFA was also filled with cliches and annoying features.First, does every villain have to have a British accent (and one with sort of a Scottish accent)? Victor, Miranda, and Felix were all "serious villains" because of their accent? Of course, TFA is not the only show/movie to fall back on this tired trope, but it seems cliche and lazy in 2020.So if you have British-type villains, you must have incompetent US law enforcement, especially police and FBI (at least the white males). TFA delivers here too. Only the "grizzled" female FBI agent and the unknown gay black CIA agent seemed to be on the ball. These unnecessary stereotypes detracted from the plot.Third - I'm sorry, but I just didn't buy Cuoco as a "functioning alcoholic". And how could anyone still earn a living being that drunk on a daily basis? Yes, there is always a certain amount of "suspension of disbelief", but TFA pushes the envelope beyond reason. What airline would employ such an irresponsible person?Fourth, the pacing of the entire run seemed padded - like they had 4 OK episodes but had to fill 8 shows. So there were a LOT of mental flashbacks, many of which seemed meaningless. Also - at least from my perspective - TFA contained a couple of production choices that were particularly annoying. This includes the overuse of split screens a la 1960s (as annoying as JJ Abrams' penchant for lens flares). And the unison soundtrack by producer Greg Berlanti's favorite composer (Blake Neely). Neely's work on TFA sounded more like John William's soundtrack for "Catch Me If You Can". Neely has done better work before, but it wasn't on display here.Fifth, the "deus ex machina" in episode #8 introduced the unknown character (CIA), which was presented almost amateurishly. Yes, he had been a peripheral character and went with Cassie to Alex's funeral (and hooked up with a male catering staffer). And he conveniently shows up at the end to battle the villain and save the girl? This was lazy story-telling.There were some lost opportunities too. Was TFA really filmed in Rome, Bangkok, and other exotic locales? Maybe not, since we mostly only saw airport and hotel interiors. There were some street scenes, which could have been shot in some areas in North America, along with some stock footage. Now, if TFA was really shot in those far-off locales, what a missed opportunity for some interesting scenes. Another lost opportunity was the failure to involve more of the male lead's family. The confrontation scenes at the funeral were good and TFA needed more of that tension.Except for the sort-of "cliffhanger" ending with the Megan character, there really is no reason for a Season 2 of TFA, unless it is treated more like "True Detective", where subsequent seasons introduce new lead characters and story lines. Star and producer Cuoco successfully shed her Penny character (which will live for decades in syndication), but she needs to make better choices for subsequent material.