Promising series sticking largely to the book
To start with, I have read the first three books of the Expanse series by James Corey, and I am a huge fan. I got to the books, after George RR Martin's recommendation.Moving to the series, I expected another cheesy show Syfy has been known for lately, and dreaded that they are doing a TV Series for one of the best sci-fi books I have read in some time. I did not even watch the trailers, somehow curiosity got me to watch the pilot episode. I was pleasantly surprised by the production quality. Syfy is clearly putting a lot of resources (and a big bet), that the series will be the winning horse. The actors so far are sticking to the characters James Corey sketched out, but some of the main characters personality is yet missing (Naomi comes to mind the first).The actors are too early to comment, but Holden (Steven Strait) seems promising, a little younger than what Corey sketched. Detective Miller is a very crucial character, and Corey had given him a fantastic gray, sarcastic humor (hope Thomas Jane can pull it off). But thats the beauty of a series based on a brilliant book, the story-line and the universe the author has built is so good, that it will be able to mask some mediocre actors too. Unlike the TV shows at present who have a rudimentary story line but rely more on script and acting to pull it off.The pilot episode largely sticks to book (a huge relief), in fact the producers have even stuck to what sort of background music is playing. I really hope this show receives the positive feedback, the sci-fi fans need it, sci-fi is so much more than comic books.I do hope viewers appreciate the intricacies of the story line, the politics between Earth, Mars, and the Belter region. The relatively more accurate space physics. The attention to smaller details (on why just having a normal Earth pressure, is a grievous torture for someone who has been born on null or lower gravity etc). The changes in lingo between various regions, there is a lot of Belter lingo in the dialogues etc. In the end Sci-fi fans, you have to watch this to support the genre. This is actual old school Sci-fi.