All through the movie I kept saying "are you kidding?"
I have always been a big fan of the Indy movies and I am a SciFi nut. I also read Ebert's reviews to understand his criticism and analysis. So that sets the stage.

This movie is, unfortunately, dreck, ca-ca, poo, crud, call it what you will. It is an insult to the intelligence of each and every movie-goer. And for a Lucas-Spielberg movie to be so is quite beyond belief.

Let me highlight the lows and then I will get into some specifics.

The dialog seems little more than to act as a narration to explain what happened, what is currently happening and what will happen in the near future. It does not develop the characters or the plot.

The plot is crude and unconvincing. The characters move through their lines with little humor and false emotion. Although I don't expect academy awards ranking here I do expect for than "Plan 9 from Outer Space" acting. (If you've seen this you know dreck.) The chase scenes are too long and not always relevant. There is no suspense, anxiety, or real fear displayed by the actors or felt by the audience. There were so many times in the movie that Indy should have been killed by the Russians since he had done his part, but he wasn't.

There is none of the excellent humor that set a foundation for the tongue-in-cheek performances in Raiders and to a lesser extent the following two sequels.

The improbability factor in much of the movie is astounding and the inclusion of useless scenes in also excessive – I will give details: Climbing into a refrigerator will not protect you from being smashed and hurled hundreds of yards or more and crashing to the ground. When it crashes at 100 miles per hours you crash as though there was no refrigerator around you since, the last time I checked, there is no padding in one of these. And let's not even discuss the heat and radiation of the blast (lead will only protect so much). Ants cannot carry whole people away into their nest, nor do they possess tablespoons of goo in their bodies.

Remember those house-sized rocks revolving at great speed around the spaceship as it took off? They would not just stop and drop when the "magnetic" field was gone, they would fly off and destroy all around them including all the observers who were just yards away.

What the hell was the purpose of the motorcycle in the airplane? How long did that last.

When Mutt was looking for Indy, he seemed not to know what he looked like. Wasn't it a tremendous coincidence that he happened to first choose the right person? And that he was on that side of the train and that the train could be stopped for him to get off (not explained was that?) After the initial contact with the FBI, they disappeared from the movie. There were more Russians than FBI on American soil after that scene.

Is gunpowder magnetic? I think not. If the Cadaver in the warehouse was so magnetic that it would attract the gunpowder, why wasn't all the metal in the warehouse and being carried by the troops attracted similarly. Why was it that only those metal items the camera was focusing on where attracted. In fact, later in the movie, this magnetic field could be stopped by a cloth covering – as if! An amphibious vehicle of the kind the main characters were riding in is not inherently a floating device. Like most ships, if water gets inside or they turn over (capsize) they will sink like a stone. Clearly, there were no sailors on board this cast or crew. For all the occupants to survive not one but three falls over falls the last of which looked like Niagara Falls is so comical as to be ridiculous. (btw, I know I overused that word). Why not make them a bit smaller and give the cast some trouble with the cascades so that we are anxious for their safety. When things are so absurd, the audience must suspend disbelief so greatly that at no time is it fearful for their survival.

Mutt already had the skull, why did he risk death by continuing to sword fight? What's with the attacks by the natives? These occurred twice and neither was well explained, although the fear factor with them was probably the best in the movie.

At the end the scene with Mac going crazy trying to gather the gold (and then dying) was so predictable, having been played out hundreds of times in other movies. Couldn't they have done something a bit different? Could Mutt really swing with the monkeys so as to catch up with speeding vehicles? Just where did he learn this skill while looking in mirrors and combing his hair? When Indy blew into the wrong end of the blowgun, the native shouldn't have died since the wrong end pierced him. In fact the wrong end isn't sharp at all or it would be impossible to discharge.

Would the army place a highly secret and very important warehouse in close proximity to a nuclear test site? Not unless they wanted to destroy everything in that warehouse, which was unlikely. And while we are at it wouldn't these highly trained Russians know that a nuclear test was being conducted? Well, I have asked more questions here than can be explained in a lifetime of Indy movies. And I haven't asked them all. All I have to add is - I want my two hours back please!!