Adrenaline pumping hardcore popcorn action done right
The weather is finally better, people are taking their clothes off all over the place and even though it is still spring time, summer movies are now officially kicking off and ladies and gentleman, we start this summer right with Fast Five. The Fast and Furious franchise is something of an acquired taste, a sort of guilty pleasure that hasn't really been shown the respect it has earned. It isn't known for any of the terms critics love to use when they complain about a movie, like intellectual dialogue, solid characterization or even anything remotely close to a thought provoking plot. No, what it excels in is another term that critics seem to have forgotten about. Popcorn, no that overpriced buttery stuff you get from a concession stand, I'm talking popcorn films! Energetic movies meant to entertain, a good solid waste of time! So what makes a good popcorn film? Well if this question is asked to the future filmmakers of tomorrow one need only to watch Fast Five to see a fine example of how to get it right. Director Justin Lin (who also directed the fast and the furious) makes a huge leap in directorial prowess by showing an incredible eye for action that every other director today should take note at. The man can film ACTION, and you know..In an action moviethat's kind of what you want and with that eye brings together an expendables version of the fast and furious franchise starring everyone's favorite fast and furious stars. Dominic Toretto (played by Vin Diesel) and his crew find themselves on the wrong side of the law once again as they try to deal with a drug lord and a federal agent that's hot on their trail. So , umback to talking about the action. It is INNNNcredible. Oh man this is my kind of action, I seriously have not seen this kind of solid , non computer generated action in a very very long time and Justin Lins camera work is top notch. Every shot is deliberate and clean. Ohso good. Aside from the action the other thing that makes this film work is the stars. Everyone from The Rock to Ludicrous play their characters great and have their own moments to shine. While the movie does slow down in the middle to what looks like Ocean's Eleven meets Fast and Furious, the stars are what keep this movie was falling apart. The movie at times felt like a parody of action films, filled with cheesy cliché's that are sometimes so subtle you'll miss it but Linn will toss another scene in there in case you did and often in hilarious ways . The rock is just so great, it's these roles he should be taking, not the flying fairy kind, he's so great in this film I would love to see a spin off with this very character of his, this cocky nonsense guy who just knows everything, and he really does know everything. Frankly, that's the only two things that this movie has going for it. Action and pretty people and in a popcorn film, that's all you need. So this one is easy folks, for those with their noses in the air looking for only citizen Kane caliber films to entertain them, you should know better, you know a fast and furious movie isn't for you. It's a vapid film that would have been unwatchable had it not been for its action and star power. But it pulls off being entertaining. So if you're looking for adrenaline pumping action , seat rumbling roars of the hottest cars , beautiful people looking beautiful even when being shot at then you got yourself the definition of a popcorn film, meant to entertain you in every single way and this is popcorn done right.