Americans know entertainment, but not pleasure
As many viewers remarked, this movie is about the self-discovery of a very selfish, over-privileged and shallow woman, named Liz. At the beginning of the movie, Liz, played by Roberts, kneels down and prays God,stating with great exaggeration that she is "in deep trouble". This "deep trouble" turns out to be a very banal divorce, which in turns - and very quickly - develops into yet another relationship.

Liz is a woman who is defined only by her relationships, a problem common to the vast majority of female humankind. However, being an upper-class female, Liz can afford to take a year off her life and embark in a journey of self-discovery. Perhaps to find out if yet another relationship is what she really (but really really) needs. So far, not so interesting at all.

There is at least one good thing about this movie The Italian part, despite some ridiculous anachronism, delivers some truth that Americans find hard to accept. I read some reviews (written by US citizens, of course) where Liz is accused of the sin of "gluttony" just because she enjoyed some spaghetti and fried carciofi. Never read any American critic complaining because a movie is too violent or too many bullets are fired yet, for some reason food is a sin, and even more so - enjoying it.

Maybe that is because, as one of the character states" Americans know entertainment, but not pleasure". And entertainment is business, and business in money On the other hand, Rome is depicted as it might have been in the 50's, which is ridiculous and even offensive. Contrary to Liz's experience, most Italian houses do have hot and cold running water.

Things turn boring in India, also due to the nature of the "entertainment", but pick up again (just slightly) in Bali. The third part of the movie is the best for anybody who is a fan of Javier Bardem. He is cute, sweet and suitably vulnerable. In a way, he is playing the "girlfriend" part to perfection. Unfortunately Liz turns out even more obnoxious when she shouts some idiocy like "I don't need to love you to love myself". One really feels like strangling her, rather than abandoning her to the inevitable happy ending. Would not recommend, even if I saw much worse.