"I'll free you." - From what? - From freedom.
I think any viewer, buying a ticket for this film, is aware of what he expects to see on the screen. Recently, the film industry has been criticized for the abundance of projects of a purely entertaining nature, including the "Avengers". However, if you look closely - it turns out that there is not so much really good and quality entertainment cinema. Some films are boring, some are bluntly stupid; and, for the most part, it turns out that "entertainment" can be called only a few luxuriously shot scenes, and at other times the viewer is forced to entertain himself with popcorn and cold cola. So the "Avengers" is a completely different case.

I'm not a fan of comic books, and the attitude towards this genre is rather negative, because of its total zashtamovannosti and uncompromising pathos. However, seeing such a spectacle as the "Avengers", it's hard not to leave your sarcasm aside, and fully enjoy the proposed attraction. Director Joss Weedon, in the beginning, caused me to distrust, in spite of the mass of laudatory reviews, his "Mission Serenity" did not impress me at all; However, in this case, a clear and confident direction is felt throughout the film. Weedon is also responsible for the script, and here I want to note how competently it is worked out to fill the picture with action to the eye, not forgetting about the meaningfulness and clear drawing of the characters' characters. It is a balanced scenario that makes the film look "in one go," and the characters look so charismatic, as necessary for a positive perception of the picture. Undoubtedly, Marvell approached the project very seriously, presenting "Torah" and "First Avenger" last year, these films being technically quite successful in themselves, at the same time became an effective prelude to the main movie event Marvel. And the creators did their best to make the film truly an event that surpassed its historical predecessors. Since almost all the characters are familiar to the viewer, and the story itself is simple and understandable - it makes it possible to fill the picture with spectacular action to the point that it seems unbelievable how all this can fit into one film, even if it lasts more than two hours. At the same time, this is not the case when the entire film is thrown at different locations, trying to diversify the action in this way. The bulk of events takes place on the ship Nick Fury and in New York, but everything is done so qualitatively that not how much it tires. The scene of the massacre in the city in the final is fascinating, although the "scene" is not called the language, because of its wide time frame. For a very long time the heroes will fight the enemy; everything will jump, fly and explode; and all this in an excellent high-quality 3D. And although the film is not without pathos, I was pleased that the question of the police "Who are you to command here?" Captain America did not begin to pronounce his name, which the Russian viewer perceives with his teeth, but simply showed in deed.

Of course, there is a lot of humor in the film. However, if, for example, in the same "Sea Battle" creators used humor as a saving thread, literally pulling the picture from the abyss in certain places; in "Avengers" it is, albeit an obligatory, but an equal part of the overall structure, which works in a complex. This is not the option when you close your eyes to some flaws due to some pluses (an abundance of humor, for example) because there are no obvious shortcomings in all parameters of the production of the film. And the humor itself - yes, sometimes even stiff and sarcastic, chuckling over the heroes and reducing the extra degrees of pathos. In this regard, it is not superfluous to mention that Joss Weedon also had a hand in creating the scenario "Huts in the Forest", but here, of course, everything is in a softer framework.

To say that "Avengers" is a typical entertaining movie would be fundamentally wrong - in fact Marvel was removed practically by the standard representative of the genre, which uses every minute of its timing as effectively as possible. Mass of spectacular action, magnificent picture in high-quality 3D, wonderful soundtrack, sarcastic humor and nice characters. It is this film that should be considered a grandiose opening of the summer season of blockbusters, as it really sets a very high level.