Elektra Takes A Few Too Many Stabs
Why are so many people so cynical about this movie? Or any superhero movie in general? Jennifer Garner and the rest of her ensemble cast did a great job at bringing this film to life. This is a character, with her own book in the Marvel universe that is so complex that trying to classify or categorize her and adventures and background that relate are vague and mysterious, which adds to the allure of the film and character, also leaving scripting to be open-ended and leaves room for alterations to adapt a piece comic fanfare into a Hollywood film designed to please fan boys and new audiences alike, which is what this film sets out to do. And, it succeeds pretty well. Yes, changes are made, but aren't all scripts? Spider-man changed considerably to fit modern days and science, all to meet budget and Hollywood executive needs. But these people worked so closely with Frank Miller and Marvel on this film , or for any in that matter, to make the comic fan following a piece of entertainment, which didn't have to be done at all. But the fans wanted it, and then they do the 180 turn around when they get what they want and hate it?

Honestly, this film really isn't THAT bad; it is the cynical perfectionist fan boys locked in their parents basements at 30 years old who spend their lives devoting themselves to this stuff that it ruins it all for the rest of us.

Yeah, I grew up on Marvel comics myself and I loved Fantastic Four, Daredevil, Spider-man, all of the comics and teams. However I moved on and matured; I grew up, but still retained an appreciation and entertainment value and memorable fondness of these childhood/teenage stories and can enjoy these films because I can see where the line is drawn between purity and adaptation, fact and fiction, reality and entertainment.

I'm not saying we aren't entitled to our opinions, or else, why would I, or any of us even bother with such sites and reviewing. All I ask is that you ease up on some of this negative hating and scoffing you all do so well here at IMDb and give people the chance to decide for themselves, or even just say it "how it is", not over-zealously devoted to ruining everything because it isn't your vision. After all, if the tables were turned, your vision, may just have been as awfully accepted, when all that effort goes into it. Just ease up and remember it is a movie. In this case, the formula given (1 beautiful woman+special effects+easy and uncomplicated plot= decent tribute to original material) works well enough to be seen a few times or owned on DVD, but without proper and level support, you people will destroy move-making single handedly by being so selfishly involved in this.

Elektra was really great; give others the chance to decide for themselves and lighten up!