Long, but truly amazing
I saw this movie last night, and I loved it. Sure it was a very long movie, some scenes were not needed, some characters were very close for reasons never explained, but if you like action/adventure movies, you will be glued to your seat.

We all know Peter Jackson's eye for detail and perfection. Which is good, though sometimes (as we all know) he can get carried away and make the movie way longer than it needs to be. The same is with this movie. There are scenes in it that are way longer than they should be, or just not needed to see at all. With some scenes I was thinking: "Yea, yea. They are chased, they escape, 1 or 2 die. I get it." You can sort of fast-foreward through these scenes if you want. But you don't want to because: The visual effects are just mind-blowing. Everything looks so incredibly real that, as a fantasy/adventure fan, time for me just stopped and I was just bound to the screen. King Kong is a gorilla, and he really looks and acts like a gorilla. Not like a half human half animal like you can expect, but like a real gorilla, just bigger.

There are scenes that you will hate, there are scenes that you will love. There are scenes that will send shivers down your spine. There are scenes that are scary. There are scenes that are amazing. There are scenes that you want to forget. There are scenes that you want to remember for the rest of your life. There are scenes that will take your breath away, and there are scenes that will make young adults crie like little babies.

I know that people can complain about the characters and the actors, but I don't really want to say anything about them. Why? Because I am not an actor or director, so I have no idea what I am talking about. But my personal opinion is that all the actors, including the extras that you see for 2 seconds, gave it their best, and did an amazing job. Only the ending (The final 5 to 10 seconds) were kind of weird. That was the only thing about the movie that seemed forced. But everything else was something I just can't complain about.

As for the length of the movie? Yes it is long, yes it can be much shorter and yes, sometimes less is more. With this movie the length is the only thing that you will complain about. If you see this movie for the first time, you will never look at your watch, or clock. After the first time, the length does indeed become a pain, but if that is the price I have to pay for an amazing film... Then so be it.