Horrible film
Navy Seals vs. Zombies (English) 1/10 Genre: Action/Horror/real crap Director: Stanton Barrett Cast: Ed Quinn, Mikal Vega, Damon Lipari, Michael Dudikoff Year: 2015I don't know who makes this kind of crap and even bigger question, why did I watch it? I guess only because of Michael Dudikoff as it's his comeback film after 10 years although his screen time is not more than 5-10 mins. I have seen a lot of bad films but this one is a whole new level of bad film, it's like the Ben Hur of crappy films. Normally I don't like to criticize films no matter how bad they are as an appreciation for the people who put in their hard work but this one surely doesn't deserve any. Two minutes into the film and I knew I made a huge mistake of watching this one. I felt asleep ( I swear to God I did) and only if I didn't have this principle to finish a film once I start watching it no matter how bad it is I would have never dared to complete this film and turns out to be the most painful experience I ever had and I was desperately waiting for it to finish. Acting, direction, story, editing, sound and everything else is horrible and I think the best part of the film was it's trailer. Just to give you an idea of what's in the plot, Five Navy Seals go on a rescue mission to save the Vice President of the United States in a town infested by Zombies. I mean really, you will just send five guys with one chopper (not sure how did they manage to got the chopper) to rescue the Vice President of US. The Zombie make up was laughable, I have seen better make up in my office during Halloween, acting was worse than a Kindergarten play and...Forget it, it will go on and on. Stanton Barrett who is some stunt guy should stick to doing stunts or should seriously take a crash course in film direction before his next film. The actors were more painful but It was good to see Michael Dudikoff, not for his acting or anything, he even had this stupid scar oh his face to make him kinda look bad ass. If you love Dudikoff and miss him on screen re-watch American Ninja or any of his previous films till he comes out with any decent one. This is not a review, this a warning message to stay away from this film as I have already suffered and don't want others to go through the pain.