A shallow film that has good production values.
Eat Pray Love, the new romantic comedy from Julia Roberts, has received a lot of panning from critics and audiences alike, which, incidentally, led to the diminution of my expectations. I went in not to my own accord; however, I wasn't against it; I wanted to see just how bad it is. Thing is: EPL doesn't deserve all of the negative reviews; however, that doesn't necessarily mean that it is any good.

EPL follows a year of the life of Liz, a married woman who,out of the blue, suddenly realizes she's not happy with her marriage. As a result, she leaves her loyal and caring husband, and travels to Italy, India, and Balhi in order for her to dig deep into her soul, discover her purpose in life, and eat,pray, and fall in love. (hence, the title.) Yes, this woman is shallow. Very shallow. But, i'll start off talking about the positive characteristics of this film.

I have always been keen on traveling to Italy and India, and this film got me even more hyped-up about it! The scenery is breath-taking; the lustrous Rome and exotic India are awe-inspiring, to say the least! The food is mouth-watering! In addition, the Pray part, which is set in India, is very informative. The film shines in these 2 parts, and they set it apart (temporarily) from other banal chick flicks.

Production-wise, this film is perfect!The bravura cinematography is breathtaking (especially during close-ups of the food!). The editing is pretty good, as well. Roberts portrays her not-so-lovable character pretty well! Jenkins' performance is commendable as well.

However, the film wobbles at the start and by the end. When you first meet Liz, it's very hard to sympathize with her; she's a woman who had it all-money, looks, a great husband- yet she wasn't satisfied which set in motion a series of events leading her to breaking the heart of her loyal husband. When you can't relate to the main character, this is obviously an issue with the film-makers! The film is shallow! And, not to spoil things but it's obvious from the title, in the end, it takes a very clichéd route.

The problem with Eat Pray Love isn't with the cast crew who have done a pretty praise-worthy job, for the most part; it lies within the very same reason this film was made; the true life of Liz.