Up To Date, Disturbing And Powerful, Despite A Few Dated Elements
Do you want to be disturbed?Are you ready for a clammy, ice-cold classic that's relentlessly sad, chilling and upsetting? Try SUNSET BOULEVARD.Where else can you find a movie that starts -- actually starts -- with the main character being dragged out of a swimming pool dead? And then, the poor dope spends two hours telling you how he lost his job, his career, his girl friend, his self respect, and his life. But he got that swimming pool he always wanted.It's horrible to watch Joe Gillis lose everything. William Holden gives his character so much smarts and charm, you just can't believe he can be snuffed out so easily. But that's what Hollywood does -- and the message is that if it can happen to Joe, it can happen to anyone.On the other hand, Norma Desmond is truly a fiend out of hell. Gloria Swanson will never be equaled in her courage, playing a woman who is more repulsive and hateful than any modern serial killer or hatchet wielding maniac. And yet all she wants is to go on being young and beautiful forever, sharing the magic of her stardom with "those wonderful people out there in the dark!" And the message is, if this monster is what's in front of the camera, who knows how many other monsters are out there -- in the dark? At the heart of this movie is an intriguing contradiction. On the one hand, the chilling madness of Norma Desmond is as real and modern as the ghastly antics of the late Michael Jackson. (Funeral for a chimpanzee, anyone?) On the other hand, the anguish of Joe Gillis at being "kept" by an older woman is almost (and I do mean almost) too sexist and out of date to keep the viewer involved in the story.Consider how this story would play if the gender roles were reversed. What if Norma Desmond were a tough, male Western star of the silents -- someone like legendary stuntman/cowpoke Tom Mix. And what if the young screenwriter were a pretty young woman with a cheerful, irreverent, upbeat personality, sort of like Carole Lombard or Katherine Hepburn? If the two of them got together it would seem sweet, romantic, not repulsive and chilling. Particularly if the eager young female helped him to get over the death of a beloved wife, or maybe his horse.The point is, no one would be horrified if a 50 something male star seduced a bright young woman in her late twenties or thirties. In fact it would be regarded as rather romantic by a lot of people.A lot of the "horror" of SUNSET BOULEVARD comes from an unthinking assumption -- that women with money and power are unnatural creatures and that they can only attract younger men through evil and manipulation. And there's also the double standard that a woman over 50 is no damned good to a man, but a man over 50 is still in his prime.One final thought: William Holden had a wonderful career well into his seventies, and deservedly so. One of his last great performances was in THE WILD BUNCH, where he plays an aging outlaw named Pike Bishop. Note that Pike has the same basic concerns as Norma Desmond. Have I outlived my era? Can I still command respect? What was my life worth? Yet Pike's struggles to pull off one last job are not only not laughed at -- they're rendered as poignant, admirable, and unbelievably heroic. Pike plays the kind of noble, courageous life-giving elder whose wisdom and humanity -- and even his violent tragic death -- simply serve to rejuvenate an entire community.That's the kind of part a mature actress should be able to play as well!