Should only work for people who haven't seen anything in the genre
I want to start by saying that I live for crime mysteries so I am 100% in the target audience. I'm quite familiar with the genre and I love everything in it by default.

However, this movie had too many flaws and I can't understand how it has such a high score. My only guess is that most of the people who voted are incredibly unfamiliar with the genre and don't have a reference point.

Anyway, let's get to the chase. For a crime mystery it's incredibly important to get the audience to ask the right questions. There have to be very few very clear and interesting questions. And this is the most important thing the movie does not get right. The questions change all the time, they are too many, they are unclear, too simple, some too easy to figure out anyway. And we have this issue both in regards to the plot and to the characters. So the mystery part is done incredibly poorly.

The crime part is almost OK but a lot of the time it's all over the place. We didn't get a proper view of the picture in regards to the crime that took place. What exactly was done and how, what the police see as being suspicious and why, dissection of the motives of the characters and, you know, and actual investigation. It would have been fine if it wasn't such a crucial part of the story and if at least the mystery or the drama was very good.

So, next on the list is the drama. This is the only genre that actually has something to offer here. Trying to work with the characters' differences in moral stances and ethics was a very good idea, unfortunately this part of the script was in embryonic state. I believe that if they went with that as their main guiding line and main genre the movie could have been very good.

Lastly, if you go in expecting comedy... I hope you will be able to see any. It is beyond me how this is even listed as a genre here. The movie is light and easy to digest but that's not really comedy.

Other general notes:

1. Casting was fine but I have no idea what they were even trying to do with the Daniel Craig character. In the beginning I needed quite some time just to get used to him and for the rest of the movie he was below average. I admit, I truly can't even guess their intentions there. Other than that I found the casting and acting to be enjoyable.

2. I found the music to be just as messy as the story and the mix of genres. I am sympathetic because it must have been really difficult to figure out what the movie is supposed to be and therefore how to make the soundtrack.

3. I would really like to say something good or that I would recommend it anyway to people who haven't seen anything of the genre at least, unfortunately I just can't do that. It felt undercooked and messy. I would not watch any sequels they decide to make. Any British crime movie or TV show is a hundred times better in all aspects so why waste my time.

I hope this is not where detective movies are headed. First Kenneth Branagh and now this... There are plenty of people who know how to make these movies right, just give them a chance, Hollywood!