Will this review put me on the QT? How about Hush-Hush?
In 1997, five films were up for the category of best picture – of those "LA Confidential" was a contender. It was an up and down year for the Academy, having the highest grossing picture on the ticket doesn't really allow room for small independent features to see the light of day. Thankfully, "Good Will Hunting" proved that wrong, and allowed the comedian Robin Williams to receive the credit he deserved. None the less, "LA Confidential" was in the gambit that year, boasting hot new talent, an awe-inspiring image of the golden years of Hollywood, and the grittiness that only James Ellroy could imagine. So, with so many high marks – why didn't this film win? To be honest, my friends, this isn't a very good movie. As other reviews have claimed, and I agree, it is a popcorn film. It has gloss, it has catchy music, and it has veneer, but it lacks the soul to be an award winner. "LA Confidential" is a motion picture. In the gambit of releases, it requires one viewing to see where both Russell Crowe and Guy Pierce first found their Hollywood USA footing, but outside of that – it only demonstrates one thing – Kim Basinger didn't need to put her best foot forward to win an award.

Wow. Isn't that opening paragraph grouchy? My initial feelings for this film were not as negative as I may sound, it does require one viewing, but alas, this was my second time around and frustration has set in due to the missing hours I cannot get back. "LA Confidential" is a film that boasts truths (i.e. there was a club that had women cut like movie-stars for men), or the dirty cops, but ultimately lacks that punch to make it feel … well, real. Let me explain. Upon watching this film a second time, one could notice places where the actor's voices were not synchronized to their lips; one would feel as if they were on a soundstage instead of the actual location, and finally, perhaps the largest downfall, the secondary actors not quite fitting their respected roles. I don't mean to tear apart an award winner, the people have spoken and it has already won, but it should go under scrutiny just like anything else Hollywood recycles. "LA Confidential" needed to be darker, it needed further development into our main characters, and it needed more blood – more truth, more honest, more detail. Boasting speaking parts of over 80 people is great, but when there wasn't a strong enough story to support them, it just falls apart at the seam.

With so much distress, I must admit, there were parts I enjoyed. I loved the costumes, the fantasy of this missing Hollywood. The freedom during the time seemed stronger than ever, and Hanson captured this greatly. The music countered the film greatly, focusing our attention on the time with upbeat songs and jingles. Finally, I did like where Russell Crowe went with his character. His was the only one that I believed, and trusted to portray a cop still fighting the struggle with his past. He was the darkness that we needed for this film; his character alone represented what "LA Confidential" should have been. He was worth watching and should have been presented with his first Oscar, but I digress. Alas, this is all I can say – the rest seemed like a downward scramble into the pit of despair.

Overall, I wasn't happy with this film. "LA Confidential" could have been the small film that knocked Titanic off its shelf, but because it was so glossed over, because it lacked the grittiness, it just felt like a Hollywood-churned product. It duped the audiences. It promised this dark world of corrupt cops and staunch criminals, but did not deliver. I wanted this to be a great noir film, a great feature to the likes of "The Untouchables", but this comes nowhere close. Hanson tries to stay mainstream with this film, but could have succeeded by bringing his own image to the table. I cannot stress this enough, this is a Hollywood film. It is everything Hollywood represents from predictable plots, to friends finding roles for other friends (see DeVito and Basinger), and bloodless shootouts. Even with all the production value going into it, we still couldn't get Crowe's voice to match his lips. Pathetic.

One viewing – that is all you will need. I promise.

Grade: * out of *****