Fantastic Four(2015) Review
Fantastic Four(2015) Starring: Miles Teller, Kate Mara, Michael B. Jordan, Jamie Bell, Toby Kebbell, Tim Blake Nelson, Reg E. Cathey, Chet Hanks, and Tim Heidecker Directed By: Josh Trank Review CHANGE IS COMING. When I was a little boy around the time when I saw Spider- Man the movie from 2002 I also watched the 90s cartoon of Spider-Man on Jetex. Along with two other Marvel properties The Incredible Hulk cartoon and Fantastic Four. I was a big fan of that show I haven't seen it in a long time. But when they made the 2005 movie and I saw the trailer on the official website of the movie I got excited, saw the movie and I loved it as a kid and I still do. The sequel however the only good thing I could say for it at the time was Laurence Fishburne. I mean I know it was kind of hard to make a fantastic four movie with Galactus but ugh I just couldn't fathom what they did to him. Comic book movies are booming these days and it's a damn shame that this is the most recent entire to Marvel's first family. I like the 2005 movie but it's doesn't feel as Fantastic as the cartoon did. I have three perfect Spider-Man movies, I have five perfect Batman movie, I have four perfect Superman movies, I have three perfect X- Men movies, I have at least one perfect Hulk movie. But not one for Marvel's first family. What the hell?! Four young outsiders teleport to a dangerous universe, which alters their physical form in shocking ways. Their lives irrevocably upended, the team must learn to harness their daunting new abilities and work together to save Earth from a former friend turned enemy. They use their origins from the Ultimate line of comics and you know something Kate Mara was actually going to read the comics to learn about her character but a FOX executive said "No don't worry where going to use only the origin from the ultimate line, not any of the character aspect" yeah actors who want to be in comic book movies if a studio executive says that to you get out of the project because they're not like Kevin Feige where they are a walking encyclopedia on Marvel or a person who gives a crap about the movie, if they don't care why should you. In this movie their is a scene where Reed Richards one of the smartest minds in the Marvel universe who while may take an obsession in his work abandons Ben, Sue, and Johnny in the facility where they are being kept. Reed would never do that especially to Sue or Ben! Victor Von Doom one of Marvels most feared and powerful villains looks like absolute crap! His character is absolutely horrible as well he's an emo punk who's a stalker for Sue. But the thing that really grinds about this movie is the one thing that they had in the Tim Story movies they completely ignored in this film, do you want to know what makes the Fantastic Four standout in the Marvel universe aside from their villains, forget their villains for a minute, the most important thing they forgot about the fantastic four is............. THEY ARE A FAMILY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! SCREW THIS MOVIE,IT IS THE WORST COMIC BOOK MOVIE AND ADAPTION I HAVE EVER SEEN IN MY LIFE!!!!!!