It's all double Dutch
A villain, Jack Carter, (Michael Caine) has returned to his home town of Newcastle to investigate his brother's suspicious death. Carter has spent years in London but has miraculously lost all traces of his native accent and adopted a kind of Cockney brogue. Even stranger, all the residents of Newcastle and district have also lost their local accents, even while continuing to live there, and they speak with a kind of undefined, pseudo-Northern twang.

There are two exceptions. One is Carter's friend Keith played by Alun Armstrong and the other is the scrap dealer, seen early in the film, and played by Alan Hockey. Both these actors have local connections. These inconsistencies render the picture immediately false, although apart from this major criticism it is all it is cracked up to be, a gritty and involving British gangster picture.

If you believe the accents don't really matter, imagine a film set in Scotland where all the characters speak with a Dutch accent. Of course, to viewers unfamiliar with the inflection of North East England this may not be too noticeable or important. It is surprising that this glaring anomaly is mostly ignored, unnoticed or glossed over by commentators on this website and elsewhere.

Regarding the film, Carter has little affection for his home city and is bent on retribution as he wanders through a series of grimy locations which contrast with the affluent lifestyles of crooks Kinnear (John Osborne) and Brumby (Bryan Mosley) who live in the countryside. There are no 'goodies' in Get Carter, everyone has a past or something to hide, and revenge is the key to the plot as Carter is an avenging angel (or devil), who eventually succumbs himself after wiping out several of those involved in his brother's murder. The locations are often striking - a car driven at speed along the quayside under the Tyne Bridge, the gun battle on the Walker-Hebburn ferry, Carter's pursuit of Eric (Ian Hendry) on the coal staiths at Blyth and a dawn police raid on Kinnear's mansion.

The film portrays crime and criminals as something unpleasant, nothing glamorous here, vengeance is nasty, brutal and swift. Not one to make you feel uplifted, but nevertheless one of the best British crime pictures.