Spectacularly well-done.
It certainly helps that Cooper's King Kong was the inspiration for Jackson to enter the art/business of film-making and give us some great films like Heavenly Creatures, The Lord of the Rings trilogy, and now his vision of the eighth wonder of the world.

The film tells a carefully constructed tale. Jackson manages not only to deliver an escapist, fun, and exciting adventure, but perhaps one of the more emotionally evoking films of recent memory. One goes through many a stage of feelings; I know I did. I cheered as Kong battled three V-Rexes in order to protect his new friend, the lovely Ann Darrow. Naomi Watts brings such warmth to the character that she certainly would make the late Wray proud. Jackson and, of course, Andy Serkis, make the mighty Kong an especially deep character for a gorilla. We learn so much from one shot that shows the audience Kong's cave, filled with the bones and memories of lost family and friends. People have misinterpreted Kong's relationship with Darrow as romance, when it is clearly friendship.

The film is visually astounding. Although the film opens in depressing Depression-era 1933 New York, it is beautifully constructed. Skull Island and its indigenous population get the job done as far as scare tactics go, as do the many creatures of the island. I don't think I'll ever get over the insect pit.

Black's portrayal of Denham is welcomed enough, although I still prefer Armstrong's sort of car salesman approach to Denham as opposed to Black's greed, creepy-faced stout filmmaker. Adrien Brody is also fine with what he was given. There isn't much to say about Driscoll here, since the film wants to concern itself with Ann and Kong. By the way, the last scene on Skull Island before we see Kong in New York City goes beyond emotion. I wanted to cry.

My discrepancies with the film lie with two things: the ugly-looking and almost unnecessary brontosaurus chase in the earlier part of the Skull Island act, and this needless subplot concerning the ship's captain's first mate Mr. Hayes and his friendship with stowaway Jimmy. It clearly does not go anywhere, and it doesn't seem to impact the audience in any way. Overall, there is so much more to Jackson's King Kong than meets the eye. It is truly one of the best films of recent memory.