Genuinely FANTASTIC!!!
Fantastic Mr. Fox was a book I loved reading as a kid and Wes Anderson's adaptation of it is one of the best.Fantastic Mr. Fox is the story of a fox who steals from three farmers and finds himself and his family in trouble after the three farmers come to kill him.I remember watching this film as a kid and loving it but back then I wasn't able to appreciate the craft that went into it. Instead of following in the footsteps of Disney and Pixar's style of animation, Wes Anderson decided to adapt this using glorious stop motion. I have a huge amount of praise for anyone who decides to make their film using stop motion as it requires so much effort to get it right and after rewatching this film I can certainly say Wes Anderson got it right.Fantastic Mr. Fox is one of the most gorgeous animated films to ever be made. From the bright and warm colour palette of the countryside to the hair on the fox's faces and tails, this film is visually stunning. I cannot imagine how hard the designers and art team toiled to bring about the result we see on screen. It must have taken days, months and possibly years to execute everything perfectly. Hats off to every single person that worked on this film as their hard work definitely paid off.It doesn't end there as the screenplay and voice acting contribute to the experience. The script by Wes Anderson and Noah Baumbach is charming, funny and witty throughout with some great humour in many scenes. This is a film that doesn't just cater to kids as Anderson and Baumbach have added plenty of adult humour and jokes to keep parents and adults thoroughly engaged. The voice acting is marvellous. George Clooney as Mr. Fox works incredibly well and Meryl Streep's Mrs. Fox is terrific as they have great chemistry with each other. The other voice actors ranging from Willem Dafoe to Jason Schwartzman also do a splendid job.There is a lot to like and appreciate in Fantastic Mr. Fox. It's a great adaptation of Roald Dahl's novel filled with clever humour, extraordinary stop motion animation and great voice acting. It's an absolute treat for kids and adults.