Good film, but not that good
I typically don't like silent films, but I decided to watch this one for two reasons. First, I usually like sci-fi movies, and second, Metropolis had received so many glowing reviews that I couldn't pass it up. However, my opinion of this film is below what most reviewers have been saying.

Kino's digitally remastered version on DVD is very impressive. The sound and picture quality are both excellent. However, I have to conclude that favorable reviews of this film are likely based on nostalgia, on the film's influence on future films, and on the incredible visual effects, given its year of release. Film history buffs and silent film fans should see this movie. I thought this was a good film, but not a great one. A rating of 8.3 is much too high, and at #93, there are plenty of better films ranked below it.

First, the good parts of the film: 1) The special effects are excellent for a pre-1930s film. 2) The mindlessness of the working class is portrayed well in how they work, the decisions they make, and in how easily they are led/misled. 3) The main character is well developed throughout the film, and the audience can relate to him well. 4) The film is visually stunning and impressive. 5) The story of the working class, vision of the future, "machine-men," etc. have had a very strong influence on many films which came later.

On the other hand, here is a list of what could have been done better: 1) Many scenes dragged on too long and were tedious. I can't imagine it being any longer than it already was. 2) The differences between the thinking class and the working class were not clear; both seemed to be pretty mindless. 3) The themes and ideas in the film have been explored better in other productions. 4) The set design and special effects are not as good as they are in the 1936 film, Things to Come. 5) Things to Come also has a far more interesting and creative vision of the future. 6) Joh Fredersen is not well developed, and his motives and decisions seem illogical for the leader of the "thinking" class. 7) There is no explanation for how the spiritual and motivational leader of the working class became so intelligent, capable, and/or competent. More background on Maria would have helped develop her character, and improved the film.

In its defense, it could be that I was not as impressed by this film simply because so many films which came after it have copied, borrowed, stolen, or re-worked ideas that appeared here first. Metropolis certainly was a trend-setter. Like I said before, I don't think this is a bad film. It's simply overrated, and I've seen plenty of films that are better but are rated lower.