Maybe I saw the wrong film?
Yikes. This is the second "classic" I'm reviewing in the same day where my opinion is almost the polar opposite of the consensus (the other was Things to Come, 1936). At least I do not feel that M is a complete disaster. The final third is actually quite good, and there are occasional moments of artistic merit prior to that. Further, you should watch M at least once for the same reason that you should head out to see the Emperor parade by in his new clothes at least once--namely, because everyone is talking about it, a lot of people are being influenced by it, and so on. But M is far from a masterpiece. Comparing M to classic Hitchcock is almost criminal. The hot air that's regularly emitted about this film could fill a million balloons for street vendors. The first two thirds of M are pretty bad--I almost couldn't make it to the ending, which would have been a shame, and I'm someone who is almost _never_ tempted to bail out on a film.

The crux of the story is that there is a serial killer targeting young girls in a large German City. The time period is the film's present. The police are having difficulty catching the killer, who is regularly making the headlines of the local paper, especially as the killer keeps writing taunting notes to be published. After the latest murder, a large vigilante group of panicked citizens, including a fair number of criminals, decides to take action. They organize, dividing up the city into quadrants for different people to patrol, and they try to keep the police uninvolved.

The problem with the majority of the film, in a nutshell, is that the storytelling is extremely sloppy. The script, co-written by director Fritz Lang, is all over the map. There are way too many characters. The audience doesn't get to know any of them, at least in the first hour. Instead, it is scene after scene of people we've never met before, mostly sitting or standing around and fretting about how they're going to catch the killer. Lang's direction is extremely flat, and the editing is even worse. The pacing is horrible. There are superfluous pregnant pauses around every corner. There are a lot of superfluous insert shots. There is a lot of poorly chosen camera placement. The absence of a score, except for the killer whistling a famous bit of Edvard Grieg's Peer Gynt, doesn't help. There are no characters to care about. There are no characters to follow into a story. The scenes have all the flow of waiting for two hours in a dentist's office. The dialogue is bland.

And the plot unfolds very linearly--this is even true when the film improves in its final third. There are no surprises or twists to be had here. All of the information that the police and the vigilantes need basically falls right into their laps. They hardly run into a kink. There are a couple small problems, but they're easily resolved.

For a thriller, M has very little tension. The first hour is more in the realm of "police procedural", but it's very slow at that, and the police aren't in it enough, or at least there's not enough procedure shown, to make it work. M is also considered a film noir, but residence in that genre is more superficial here. At any rate, it doesn't help create an engaging film.

But, as I mentioned, there are a few moments of value in the first hour. These mostly come by way of cinematographic symbolism. For example, one shot shows a child's balloon being ensnared in power lines. That and a rolling ball are sufficient to convey that the child has fallen into the killer's trap and is now dead. Some of the interesting symbolism is a bit heavy-handed, but still attractive. For example, a potential child victim who ends up in front of a store's picture window, beneath a large arrow pointing down at her, and next to a hypnotically spinning spiral.

The improvement arrives once the vigilante mob believes it has the killer cornered. This is more than an hour into the film. The sequence where they're "taking the place apart" is well directed and actually becomes suspenseful. We finally get to know a couple characters, later including two members of the police force. The crowning scene features Peter Lorre as Hans Beckert giving an impassioned speech before a huge vigilante mob--he's defending himself before a kangaroo court. Yes, Lorre is excellent here, but he's not in the film enough. 15 minutes of an excellent performance, with scattered moments elsewhere, are surely not enough to put M on "best films of all time" lists.

Lang has interesting things to say about (vigilante) justice and criminal culpability. But the vigilante justice stuff was to be much better handled by Lang elsewhere, such as Fury (1936), which is very nearly a 10. Beckert's culpability speech covers some of the basic issues that one would in an ethics class, but it's not very complete--it doesn't delve into the ontology of choice enough, and of course, it doesn't answer any of the issues. The latter fact is probably for the better. There aren't really easy answers, although my personal view is that choice is not strictly necessary for responsibility or culpability. This scene also at least implies a lot of the ethical issues involved with the formal justice system, vis-à-vis insanity defenses, the possibility of parole, and so on.

But why couldn't Lang have dived right into the material of the last half-hour after, say, a 5 or 10-minute prologue? The film ends abruptly. Extend the ending and cut out all of the fiddling-about garbage that consumes the majority of the screen time. This is just bad screen writing, and it doesn't deserve the praise it has received.