Trying to resemble an 80's thriller, but was too boring to even do that
I often ask myself: Why do we watch movies in the first place? What do they offer us? That question arises usually after a really good movie, or after a really bad one. This movie, unfortunately for me was a bad one.I got carried away and watched it because other reviews called it a masterpiece. Come on, please, a masterpiece of depression, ugliness, loneliness, moodiness and boredom this was. You must be sick in the mind and in the heart to like this film, moreover call it a masterpiece. Disturbing? Yes, in a sick way. Everything was ugly, dark, dead, without essence, a journey to the abyss of decay and misery. Why watch such images? Are people so disturbed to even tolerate films like this for entertainment? Or should we not call it entertainment, see it as depiction of reality, embrace the ugliness and so on? Because if one wants to be disturbed by reality, there are plenty of really disturbing stuff happening in the 'real' world around us everyday. So what is cinema? An escape? From what? Isolate oneself in a dark room and absorb all these images in one's consciousness; why, why does it have to look dark and ugly and violent to shake our minds? Boring? Yes. Although the cinematic views and camera angles where really interesting (EU cinema fans will appreciate it), the plot was really slow, explained nothing and did not escalate. If one has not read the book or a synopsis, one would really find this whole moving around rather boring and without reason. Acting? Hmm, let me put it this way: It was perhaps interesting to see such a beautiful actress being transformed into this depressing being that did not seem human. But if it was not for the famous name, the character was flat. Filming style? Badly tried to resemble the 80's. The thing is that in the 80's, movies turned out to look cheap and B rated because of lack of budget, bad equipment, lack of acting potential, bad directors and so on. Why film like that today? Music? Creepy but sophisticated. Synced nicely with the moody scenes.Why give it a 2? Because by no means this is an 7.2 rating movie. It is more like a 4. Also because it polluted my consciousness with disturbing images that offered nothing to me. Ah, yes, and because it was boring and wasted 2 hours of my life watching this 'decay' of the human species. Conclusion: Have you watched the Black Swan by Aronofsky? Because that was also dark and depressing but a real masterpiece, because it had essence, it talked to the heart. Under the skin was not a good movie (if you are a normal person and not sick in the mind).