Beautifully made and a wonderful movie
The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, when I was working at a movie theater, I had seen the first hour of the movie, but never got to finish it. I was so disappointed because this movie looked like something truly special and finally I got to rent it, while I'm disappointed that I didn't finish it on the big screen this is one of the great movies out of 2008. Brad Pitt as we know has proved to be more then just a pretty face, he's pulled in some great performances, he needed a push though to get recognized by the academy and this was the role that he truly deserved to be noticed. He plays one of the most memorable movie characters that I'm sure will be remembered for all time, Benjamin Button, he plays the character with such love and passion, he and Cate Blanchett together once again to provide the perfect chemistry and make The Curious Case of Benjamin Button a very special movie.

An elderly Daisy is on her deathbed with her daughter Caroline in a hospital as a hurricane approaches. Daisy asks Caroline to read aloud from a diary containing photographs and postcards written by Benjamin Button. Caroline begins to read as the story transitions to Benjamin's narration. In 1918, just as the people of New Orleans are celebrating the end of the Great War, a baby boy is born with the appearance and physical maladies of an elderly man. The mother of the baby dies shortly after giving birth, and the father, Thomas Button, takes the baby and abandons him on the porch of a nursing home. Queenie and Tizzy, a couple who work at the nursing home, find the baby. Queenie decides to take the baby in as her own. Over the course of the story, Benjamin begins to biologically grow younger. In 1930, while still appearing to be in his seventies, Benjamin meets a young girl named Daisy, whose grandmother lives in the nursing home. A few years later, Benjamin goes to work on a tugboat on the docks of New Orleans for Captain Mike. While in Russia, he begins an affair with the older, married Elizabeth. Eventually, she breaks it off, only leaving him a note telling him she was glad they met. In 1962, Daisy returns to New Orleans and meets Benjamin again. Now the same physical age, they fall in love and move in together. They experience the 1960s together, in large part blissfully but increasingly aware of Benjamin growing younger while Daisy grows older. Daisy gives birth to a girl, Caroline. Benjamin, believing he cannot be a father to his daughter due to his reverse aging, and not wanting to burden Daisy with having to raise two children, sells his belongings, and leaves the proceeds to Daisy and Caroline. He leaves them both and travels the world.

If you get the chance, I highly recommend The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, this movie was just incredible in it's scope, story, setting and actors. David Fincher took what could have been just a small treasure and made it into something incredible. This was one of the saddest love stories I have seen in a long time, we really haven't had anything too special when it comes to a love story in film, we did have Slumdog Millionaire in 2008 as well, but The Curious Case of Benjamin Button carried it's love story throughout and made you really pity this couple that you know can't have much of a future together. Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett are absolutely beautiful in this movie along with a great supporting cast, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button is a movie not to be missed.

9/10