Not that bad, and way better of what I had expected...
First of all, fanboys have to realize that they're not the intended target audience. This is a children movie, with an appropriate rating; made by a kid TV network studio. The same one that moronically killed it's best show of all time over same kiddie issues; Invader Zim. It's just like the disneyfication of the Chronicles of Narnia. So what were you expecting? Epic blood and gut battles; not going to happen. Specially since these are not orcs, or some other type of mystical anthropomorphic animals; these are real people, indeed. The only difference here is that it's in an ancient fantasy world setting. And that some people have special elemental manipulation powers. One of the problems of the film is that it fails to create that distinct fantasy realm feeling. It simply feels "too real" for it's own good. I would have liked to see more funny hybrid like creature animals; for creating a better aesthetic mood. That would be the second realization. It's not a CGI action fest either. The story is the most important factor. It's an adventurous coming of age, pilgrimage and quest tale. Sure, it could've been retold better; but it was still adequate enough. Even the special effects of the bending techniques are of little consequence; since they were so noticeable fake at first glance. Yet, an obv step up from the standard 2D drawing of the series. Little children loved this movie; they didn't have any issue buying it. And hence it was a box office success solely because of them; so in the same way it makes perfect sense to me too.

Third; the very premise that the original show has been ransacked is flawed. It doesn't even matter how good or bad it was subjectively perceived to be converted into a movie; since the bitter truth is that the show's really not that great, and gradually goes down in creative plot quality for each season. So this is actually the best main story arc. Sadly still, on another bad aspect of the film is it's casting and acting. Aang, Sokka and Zuko being the worst offenders; besides an Iroh that doesn't even look remotely similar, nor it's any fun. Since this is a live action movie; the nations within were further characterized with an ethnic tribe correlation. The idea was good; the implementation wasn't. Keep in mind that this is an USA production. It was easy to infer that it had to be caucasianazied after passing the Hollywood machinery. Night tried to compromise by adding more ethnic variation to the main org Asian mix; but failed miserably in the end. For instance, Katara and Sokka are dark skinned in the series; here are white. I'd let slide eskimos too; but oddly enough it works better for me as norses. Nevertheless, too much artistic freedom was taken that wasn't required. The point being that most people couldn't break their preconceived appearances of the characters; it didn't bother me. What bothered me more was the lack of consistency within their expected behaviour. Zuko seemed to be always angry without a reason; when it should've been the opposite. Ie, in the series he comes more cool headed, with a clear minded purpose; separated by short outbursts of near maniacal rage. Aang looks and behaves close enough, for the most part. The problem rises when he has to utter a line. And Sokka felt here more like a secondary character since the movie incidentally emphasized his superfluous effect. He should definitely be more funny. Besides, Rathbone simply shouldn't appear in any movie that requires anything but good looks. Anyhow, slightly more robust and better acting would've made a world of diff for all of them. Realizing this fourth point will help you enjoy the film more; since there's no chemistry between any of them, and the performances for the entire cast are overall flat. That also means that it doesn't really emotionally connect with a grown up audience, albeit that's also not a problem for me; as I let it consciously slide. But of course that still is no excuse, and all fault falls on the writer and director. Because Night simply shouldn't have directed it; let alone write it. It's rather self evident that he cannot manage other themes that are not twist suspense thrillers. Hell; he even hasn't score with those ones lately; only at the beginning of his career. This can only mean either that he's falling down or he's a one trick pony; but that doesn't mean this is such an gawd awful film. It's almost enjoyable; with the aid of mind altering substances, of course.:)

Which brings me to the fifth issue; the nutty plot doesn't actually follows the series that closely. It's obv that it can't; since it's an impossible task to condense appropriately a whole season into a movie. In this particular and series' case; "book #1". Things necessary had to be either changed or cut out. However surprisingly, Night's passion, vision and style, counterweights and overcomes any problems the film may pose otherwise. People that didn't like the end product are obv biased towards his work. Of course the material works best if you haven't seen the org kid's animated series. So in resume; a final more objective, cohesive and global look at the film yields that is not that bad as some other comparable adaptations; say like, The X-Men saga. Expecting realism and serious drama of an unreal campy cartoon is like expecting to get drunk out of root beer. It'll all end in frustration and disappointment on your behalf. So lower your expectations and lighten up; this obv isn't Shakespeare. And if you want to keep seeing movies out of those; then support them, even if not on par to your high and mighty standards of excellence. It's the only way to boot a franchise, and eventually get a really good reboot; way down the line...