The pioneer of cyberpunk movies.
Ask your self a question. What's the best si-fi cyberpunk action packed mind blowing motion slowing movie out there? Simple enough, it's The Matrix. As we all are suck at home kin this pandemic movies and series have become a great escape for us. As such many of us have started watching old movies again for the nostalgia. And when it comes to old moves "The matrix" was the most grossed R-rated film till 2016 when Deadpool took its place. Such a movie is a must watch for everyone for it has the person we love from the bottom of our heart as the main cast whom is none other than Keanu Reeves. So all the BREATH TAKING fans out there, do watch the franchise. The movie won't disappoint you. Its a rare and rich movie which will leave a rich aftertaste in your mouth. It is guaranteed to give you the best cyberpunk feel out there as it the the originator of the genera as well as the pioneer.

The Matrix was filmed in 1999 so it has got fairy old CGI and edit considering it being a si-fi action film. The whole franchise is written and directed by the Wachowskis, starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving and Joe Pantoliano. The movie got its inspiration from Japanese Anime and martial arts films. Mainly the anime and manga known as "Akira" or "ghost in the shell" When the heroin Trinity is cornered by a police squad she manages to overpower them with super humane abilities and flees but soon to be pursued by mysterious agents with similar superhuman abilities. In the middle of the chase trinity answers a ringing phone in a phone booth and vanishes instantly.

Meanwhile computer programmer Thomas Anderson feels that something was out of place in the world and was puzzled by the phrase "the matrix" which kept popping up in front of him ever so often. Trinity manages to contact Anderson and tells him that a guy named Morpheus knows all the answers to his questions. As a team of agents and police comes to search for Neo at his office, he soon gets captured by them. Despite Morpheus's attempt to guide Neo to safety via telephone. Undeterred, Neo later meets Morpheus, who offers him a choice between two pills, red to reveal the truth about the Matrix, and blue to return him to his former life. This is where we get the ever trending meme template from about a blue pill and a red pill. After Neo swallows the red pill, his reality falls apart, and he awakens in a liquid-filled pod among countless others attached to an elaborate electrical system. He is retrieved and brought aboard Morpheus's hovercraft. And so the journey of Neo the chosen one begins. As someone slowly starts to watch the franchise ant emerges within the original world of the matrix they'll soon come to understand why the movie won 4 Oscars along with 37 other awards and 51 nominations. That's why I recommend this movie downright to anyone who asks for a old si-fi movie recommendation. And we hope that the franchise will keep up its excellent and stunning work with the newest title coming out in 2022.