A fun and silly TV showed turned into an awful movie
Let me get this out there straight off the bat. I loved the TV show. It was fun and silly and knew what it was about. I know there is a lot of expectation when a famous and much loved TV show is adapted into a two hour feature film. Especially when it is 25 years later. But how Joe Carnahan turned it into (to borrow a quote from Roger Ebert) an incomprehensible mess, I'll never know. Forget the lame script, there is much bigger bones to pick. I don't even know where to start so in no particular order: Music. Apart from a few chords here and there, where the hell was the theme music? (Apart from the credits). BA's GMC had a cameo then got smashed to bits? Casting: Liam Neeson as Hannibal. Great. No problems. Bradley Cooper as Face. Great. No problems. Quinten "Rampage" Jackson. Mixed. But I still think Mr T could and should have reprised the part. Sharlto Copley as Murdoch. I tried very hard to like him but he just didn't do it for me.

When I wasn't trying to figure out who was in what country at any given time, I was trying to make sense of the mess of the script in between all of the non-stop action sequences. Structure was a complete mess.

I am trying to remember the last time I actually sat in a movie theatre watching a full on action sequence with explosions and the like thinking how bored I was.

And at the end of all of this, a disrespectful and tacky add on at the end of the credits with Dirk Benedict and Dwight Schultz which made absolutely no sense whatsoever. It's like it was filmed to maybe go into the main picture at some point but was ultimately tagged on at the end. Mr Carnahan, I just don't see the point in involving a couple of members from the original TV show just to have used their footage in this way. In fact, in the ten seconds that he was on screen, Dwight Schultz did more to show why he was much loved as Murdoch and as to why the TV show was the hit that it was and as to why it was everything this movie isn't. Something just gave me the impression that Mr Carnahan got to the editing suite and suddenly realised that Dwight Schultz was so good it showed up the crap he had actually made and so relegated it to the post credits sequence.

All in all I really think the filmmakers missed a trick here and have made a bland and convoluted no brainer for 13 year olds rather than for the legions of devoted fans that loved the TV show so much.

Even after all these years, there was something inside me that just thought it would have worked better to bring back the original cast (with Liam Neeson as Hannibal in the place of the deceased George Peppard) and just update everything to the present day and see what happened to this crack commando team after 20 or 30 years on the run.