Terrible
"Tree" wakes up on her birthday in some guy's dorm. She treats the guys like crap because that's what Hollywood finds acceptable these days. She rushes out, and as she walks across campus several details are emphasized. She goes to her dorm where her roommate has a birthday cupcake for her, which she rejects. She runs to class. Turns out she's the married teacher's mistress. She's got a sorority meeting later. Then a surprise birthday celebration at the sorority house. She complains bitterly because she doesn't want her birthday celebrated. Sure, what college girl doesn't want to celebrate her birthday with her friends? Those in the movies.

On her way to a party at night she's stalked by some guy in the university's mascot mask--a baby face. Eventually he kills her. And she wakes up again in the guy's dorm and the day repeats itself. After a couple of these cycles, she starts remembering the previous cycles more and more and realizes that she can't die. She reluctantly befriends the guy with whom she spent the night and he suggests that she actually try and find out who's killing her, since she seems to have an indefinite amount of time. She agrees and tries to avoid people or situations that led to her death previously but to no avail, she always ends up killed anyway. Finally, she has a Nitzschean epiphany and realizes all the wrongs she's done, all the people she's mistreated and in one of the cycles of the eternal recurrence of the same actually changes and decides to become a force for good. She ends up dead anyway. But by accident she discovers the identity of the killer and tries to confront him before he kills her. But then there's a twist.

Happy Death Day is yet another sorry PG-13 horror movie with a dislikeable, annoying, and insolent young female lead where horror is reduced to a minimum and sexual references abound. IMBDb tells us that we have to witness 11 times the same day more or less, a completely dull and unremarkable day. This movie could have worked as an R-rated slasher, with plenty of nudity and violence. Instead as a sanitized yet politically correct PG-13 movie with an obnoxious lead character, a weak cast, and a pointless day that repeats itself, this movie has very little going for it. Rachel Matthews shines in the role of the girl running the sorority. Other than that, there's little worth seeing here.