Surprisingly lackluster
On the surface, Gary McKendry's Killer Elite has all the makings for a fun, action-packed popcorn flick. Even with talented actors like Robert De Niro, Jason Statham and Clive Owen, Killer Elite fails to be gripping or thrilling due to the stale subject matter and flat direction. There is surprisingly little fun to be had with the mediocre acting from our leads or the dull and forgettable action sequences. Killer Elite rarely realizes it's potential for a fun action flick and ends up just another forgettable and completely disposable bore because of it.

It really is hard to criticize Killer Elite for it's dull subject matter as it claims to be based on a true story, but the story told here is nothing we've never heard before. The story is simply "recently retired agent blackmailed to do one final job." Even though it is based on a true story, it still feels recycled and uninspired. Although, there was actually one aspect to the story that was fairly interesting and quite enjoyable. The contracts that were to be carried out by the team must be made to look like accidents, and these short hit scenes were admittedly quite awesome. While these scenes are entertaining and clever, they only make up a small portion of the film's run-time, making the rest an increasingly tedious slog.

There is a noticeable lack of substance that plagues Killer Elite as it struggles to generate any interesting ideas or plot developments. Even some of the action scenes lack adrenaline or excitement, due to the shoddily choreographed hand-to-hand combat and gunplay.

Killer Elite is certainly watchable, but there are very few redeemable qualities to make you ever want to watch the film again. The story, aside from the assassinations, is mediocre, the characters are flimsy and the action is unimpressive and dull. Even if you are just looking for a fun and disposable action flick, Killer Elite only manages to be completely disposable. An uninteresting story is played out by seemingly uninterested actors, making the entire experience feel cheap. It's impossible to recommend Killer Elite to anyone as the lack of substance makes it a mere skeleton of the film that it could be. Additionally, on a less relevant note, there was something noticeably off about a 68 year-old Robert De Niro wielding a machine gun.