My Favorite Film Ever
If there's no such thing as a perfect movie, then La La Land simply doesn't exist. There's so much right with it that I can't put into words how much I love it. But I'm going to try.

1: The Opening

Right out of the gate, director Damien Chazelle lets us know what we're watching: without a doubt it's a musical. Another Day of Sun is an amazing musical number that shows us why people go to Los Angeles. All told in one shot with no main or secondary characters being there. It's one of the best ways a film could start, and it's the best way this could.

2: Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling

This film doesn't have too many characters. But it works, it's able to tell Mia and Sebastian's story really well with pretty much just them (and John Legend in the second half). And Emma and Ryan are a joy to watch. Their chemistry is impeccable, but seeing as they've been in three other films together that's not too suprising. They both put on amazing performances, especially Emma in her Audition towards the end. Ryan's commitment is astounding, and it really shows. They can both sing and dance well, something especially highlighted in A Lovely Night. They're both really fun to watch and their relationship and it's problems are believable, and they make it even more believable.

3: Damien Chazelle

He's amazing. His style and writing feels unique and never boring, this is especially shown in the film's song sequences. He makes these characters relatable and likable. From his long takes to quick back-and-forths between characters; everything he does here makes this film look even more beautiful.

4: The Music and Score

I love it. Easily the best score for any film I've seen. Yes, I mean any. I can't put into words just how much I love it. Listening to it again, it's just amazing. Epilogue might be my favorite, but that's not to say literally everything else here isn't perfect. The only song I can think of that isn't (Start a Fire) is intentionally not as good, as that's the point of the song. But I'd be lying if I said I didn't enjoy that either. The music clearly took time and effort and it pays off, because without it, the film wouldn't be nearly as spectacular.

5: The Epilogue

This scene deserves it's own category. It's such a gut punch, but it's so beautiful. I can't not cry from the ending while also being swept away by how beautiful it is. The set, the score, the choreography, it all paid off for this ten minute long scene that I can't possibly get sick of.

6: Conclusion

There's something about La La Land that I can't ignore. It's gorgeous in every way possible. There is only one perfect film, and this is it. I encourage everyone reading this who hasn't, to sit down and watch this movie. It's too good not to see.