Sure to ruffle some politically correct feathers, but important for its historical value....
I am very happy that Warner Brothers Video has released this film. Although it's very politically incorrect when seen through today's lenses, it is a very important historical document--plus it shows a side of Black-American culture you just don't see otherwise. Fortunately, instead of burying the film and pretending it doesn't exist (like Disney has done with "Song of the South"), they added a brief prologue that explains the context for the film and apologizes for ruffling some politically correct people the wrong way! As a history teacher, I am thrilled that they did release this Oscar-nominated film--especially since they show a side of black culture from the era apart from the famed 'Harlem Renaissance' in New York!

The first 30 minutes or so has little actual plot. The film is set in the deep South and the people are all very poor black farmers--and is told in the colloquial terms of the day for such folk. Some might ruffle (especially as some of the portrayals seem a bit over the top), but it also features wonderful black spirituals, dancing and culture--albeit sanitized and reshaped by Hollywood for general consumption.

After the first half hour, the plot begins. Zekial is flush with money after selling his cotton crop. A crafty and evil woman pretends to care about him but actually sets him to lose the money in a rigged craps game. Zekial realizes what happens and opens fire--and accidentally hits an innocent person. He disappears and is not seen for some time. When he does return, he's now a preacher--his life supposedly changed and reinvented. What will this preacher do, however, when he one day meets up with the same 'lady' and the slick gambler who robbed him and set his life on this new course? Watch and see for yourself.

Whether or not you see this film should all depend. If you are dyed in the wool 'Politically Correct Person', you should avoid it or at least have a few drinks first to calm your nerves! If you are a history teacher or film historian, DEFINITELY watch it. If you are a casual viewer wanting some fun....well, this is NOT the most funnest film you can find--it is definitely challenging viewing and very dated (and yes, I KNOW you don't say "most funnest", thank you). Regardless, for its time it was actually pretty liberal and quite a positive step for the white power structure that the film was made....even if it still falls way short when seen today.

By the way, for a sound film from 1929, it has amazingly good sound and the print quality was excellent. It appears to have been very well restored--something that can't be said of many films of this era.