The real stars here are the cars...
I have mixed feelings about this movie. I do prefer movies that are a little more... intelligent per say, but I still feel Gone in Sixty Seconds is quite underrated. Actually, my biggest complaint is that the movie was too short. There was simply too much story and way to many characters to fit into the movie's time frame.

The basic story is about a car thief, (Cage) who has achieved legendary status and then retired. His younger brother, trying to be like his brother, falls into car boosting too, but soon gets in too deep and ends up on the hit-list of a ruthless crime lord after he messes up a very important job. Now, the only way to save his brother's life is for Cage to come out of retirement and finish the job: Strealing fifty high profile cars in one night. Together with many other top thieves, they set out to do the impossible.

While the cast is truly star studded, with big names such as Nicholas Cage, Angelina Jolie and Rober Duvall, most of the acting and characters aren't that sympathetic. The movie simply has too many characters to really get deeply into any of them. Delroy Lindo does a fairly engaging job as the old arch-nemesis of the protagonist, and Cage is good as usual, but the rest of the cast is nothing special, except perhaps for the mysterious coroner who never talks, Sphynx.

But, the movie is still worth watching for the suspenseful action and the truly incredible chase scene at the end. Is there anything more beautiful then that Shelby Mustang GT, nicknamed Eleanor, roaring down the streets of Los Angoles? There are many other exotic cars in this movie too, from a very unique Hummer to a Lambourgini Diablo.

Don't go into this movie expecting a deep and involving, dramatic story. While it does attempt at this, it doesn't necessarily succeed. But the action is suspenseful and although a tad unrealistic at times, it is a great kick to watch. This movie is better then the average action movie. A true classic for the car chase genre.

My rating: 1/2 out of Other recommendations: Bourne Supremacy, The Italian Job (1969), Smokey and the Bandit