This is great stuff with a hidden gift.
The topic seemed puerile, so I ignored this film until I noticed a good average rating from critics. Then I watched, and at first felt bored, but stuck, despite it's miserable pacing, pedestrian production values, and cliches. I realized there must be some redeeming value, because it seemed like religious hate speech barely masked with good intent.
I was confused a little at first, by its handful of laugh-out-loud moments that arise from naive characters saying stupid things. For example, one character starts ranting to a friend, with some mixture of shock and relish at telling a disturbing secret, about a disgusting scene in a partial-birth abortion film she was shown in class, and her friend cuts her off saying,"Don't ruin it for me!" I laughed out loud, truly fooled into supposing this was clever satire, rather than seeing it as a deceptive portrayal.
But this film is terminally wounded, and the jokes revealed as pitiful attempts to portray every Catholic (they are all Catholics) as misled through either naivete or stupidity, and mired in a juvenile cowardice that eventually matures into institutions led with willful blindness and cruelty, directed by senile nuns with poor eyesight. It becomes clear, by the end, that the average of approval by critics must be proceeding in part from their approval of this religious hate speech.
The G. Bush Administration was genuinely concerned with helping children, as a theme for it's time in office: "No child left behind". And consequently it investigated sex abuse in schools. What it concluded is that students in public schools are about one hundred times more likely to be sexually abused than are students in religious institutions, and about one hundred less likely to have their assaults addressed as crimes. That ought to matter. You should have been told. Someone really ought to have made a film about it, don't you think?
There may be quite a bit of truth in the proposition that girls and boys are misled by poor religious models, but that's not a crime. It's just an avoidable tragedy that results too much from religious hatred polarizing and isolating children. Religious hate speech is a crime. Sexual assault is crime. And willful ignorance is on us.