Incredible movie. Great sci-fi. The humanoids are the stars. Bring on Godzilla!
Alien vs. Predator? Humbug! Predator wins all the way. Let's make it a fair fight: Predator vs. GODZILLA!!!! Now THAT would be a fair fight! Or what about Predator vs. the Wicked Witch of the West? or Predator vs. The Terminator? Or Predator vs. that huge flying saucer from Close Encounters of the Third Kind? Or Predator vs. the ghosts from Ghostbusters? Or Predator vs. the Alien from the original movie which was the meanest and nastiest Alien of them all? Or what about Predator vs. the Giant Mantis? or Predator vs. the original Frankenstein creature? Or what about Predator vs. Gort from the Day the Earth Stood Still? Or Predator vs. The Thing from Another Planet? Or Predator vs. The Invisible Man ( who also had a very nasty disposition)? Or Predator vs. The Mummy? Or Predator vs. the giant bugs from Starship Troopers? Or what about Predator vs. the Martians from the War of the Worlds? Or Predator vs. T-Rex and company from Jurassic Park? Or Predator vs. King Kong? King Kong would have squashed Alien.

If anyone watches this movie with an open mind (that is, without any bias, if that's possible), you will have to admit, albeit begrudgingly, that this is actually a good movie. As much as you may want to rag it, make fun of it, deride it, put it down, quash it, squash it, malign it, denigrate it, or belittle it, as tempting as it might be, you will not be able to honestly do so. This is a quality sci-fi movie. Accept it.

When I went to watch this movie I was expecting just another Hollywood piece of potboiler junk, but I was surprised. This movie is actually good and as much as I would like to rag it, I can't because the movie gives no cause to do so. This movie is an action-packed science-fiction thriller in which the humans are completely superfluous except when they get in the way of the humanoids who have made earth their battlefield, and there's nothing the humans can do about it. NOTHING! This may be the first sci-fi movie in which the humans are completely helpless and rendered incapable of fighting back. In other words it's an original story, and it's the humanoids who are the stars.

This is an incredible movie. Earthlings, when the Alien and Predator arrive, you're in the way! While these incredible non-human beings are going at it, the earthlings are utterly hapless and helpless. This movie is the surprise of the year. It out-Mists the Mist and it's even more compelling than the original Predator, which is one of the great sci-fi movies of all time. This movie is an example of Hollywood getting it right, where special effects do not trump the story, which this movie actually has. The question posed by this movie is: How do you get rid of unwanted humanoids from who-knows-where that have infested your town? Although not human, they are not animals nor mindless monsters. They are very human-like, especially when it comes to aggressive behavior. They are utterly fearless, act without remorse, are completely ferocious, extremely cunning, and in the case of Predator, armed with an array of weapons, including laser and nuclear, designed to destroy anything in the universe. They are not to be trifled with and in this movie they are not. Although Alien is intriguing, it is Predator who is most interesting. This is not a goofy movie. This is incredible sci-fi story with great acting and excellent special effects. Remember, although monstrous in appearance, Alien and Predator have certain human-like characteristics which make them far more complex than your typical Hollywood scary-monster. One thing is for certain: they have absolutely no use for humans except as an occasional meal. Otherwise, don't get in their way because they're unstoppable. And for goodness, sake, don't try to break up an Alien-Predator fight. That would be a huge mistake.

In previous movies, humans initially are over-matched but still recover enough to at least put up a fight. What makes this movie different is that in this movie the humans are absolutely no match for the Aliens and Predator who are vastly superior in terms of weaponry, cunning, stealth and sheer power. They can be injured, they can be killed, but at a price that would mean the eventual defeat for humans in an all-out war. Regarding the Aliens, at first one might consider them to be merely highly vicious and uncontrollable monsters without any intellect, kind of like the dinosaurs in Jurassic Park and other similar Hollywood pulp, but that is not the case. They are highly intelligent, capable of planning actions and acting in concert to achieve for them the ultimate goal - to reproduce and at the same time destroy everything around them. Okay, Godzilla wanted to reproduce too, but unlike Aliens, Godzilla's intelligence was inversely proportional to her (or rather its) size ... and if you don't know what the term "inversely proportional" means, then that's your problem. Predator would have disposed of Godzilla in five seconds.