What is art if not a prompt for debate?
The impact of Under the Skin was substantially reduced by the information that some reviewers (and preview blurb, for that matter) decided to impart to the potential viewer. Watch the trailer by all means, but be careful what you read before you view Jonathan Glazer's weird, disturbing film. Don't even read the solitary line of blurb on the IMDb page; and that's a unique criticism of the great site from me!Stranger than Glazer's Birth, less accessible than his fantastic Sexy Beast, Under the Skin is a visually and tonally disturbing voyeuristic journey that follows an odd, emotionally detached woman, Laura (Scarlett Johansson) as she picks up strangers in her van on the streets of Scotland. Laura dismisses more than she picks up as she clearly has a reason and a personal need for them.Much has been made of Johansson's performance and the largely improvised interaction with non-actors. Certainly, this is a fine departure from the norm for her, she is compelling, convincing and chilling, but rather too much has been made of the improvisation, implying that Under the Skin relies almost entirely on random connections with passersby. However, that is just one aspect of the film and it would neither succeed nor disturb without a script and performances from actors, or at least, heavily directed first timers. There are some fine moments of public reaction to the abnormal Laura, but I found myself wanting more that was undeniably unrehearsed and shocking to the Scottish residents who stumble across Laura on the streets.The debate will rage over whether Under the Skin is mind-expanding art or pretentious c**p and I veer towards the latter with some reservations. There are plenty of visual delights ranging from use of colour blends, the combination of film and the stunning sets and effects of Laura's, what shall we call it? Lair? That will suffice. The slick, dark 'pool' of the interior is perfectly at odds with the derelict exterior, and the contrast of Laura's bleak world with the rugged Scottish scenery and the depressed council estates enhances our discomfort.The supporting actors, Paul Brannigan (The Angel's Share, Sunshine on Leith) the most recognizable amongst them, are here purely to serve Johansson, and their characters fodder for Laura's needs. We are given the barest snippets of information about them; just as much as Laura requires to make her decision on whether they are a prospect worth pursuing.Under the Skin is not a film I particularly enjoyed, nor wish to see again in a hurry. Mica Levi's disquieting score ramps up the violins to scratch under the, um, skin, to maximize the unnerving effect of the visuals and plot, such as it is. It is bleak, disturbing, unsettling and not easy viewing.But it is also imaginative, beautifully creative and, if nothing else, will prompt debate as to its merits. And what is art if not a cause of discussion? For more reviews from The Squiss, subscribe to my blog and like the Facebook page.