That's official, Carrie Fisher is a joke of an actress.
The same with Mark Hamill.The good things: Good concept, nice plot, very good SFX (though not as good as in 2001, at least in my opinion), good score (though Willams is generally overrated) and acting of Harrison Ford and especially Alec Guiness.Now, the minuses.1) The dialogue. Childish.2) Logic. When you look at the Empire soldiers you wonder :How is it possible that with a bunch of such unskilled, stupid and poorly trained idiots it managed to defeat the Republic. It's a mystery. Lucas could hire Stevie Wonder or Ray Charles, and at least then I would understand why none of them managed to wound any of our heroes. Come on it's not that difficult; Rosie O'Donnel would be worse target. They were supposed to be the best soldiers in the galaxy (I believe OWK said sth like that).3) And now for the acting. Mark Hamill is just an annoying piece of wood, but Carrie Fisher...... arrrgh. The best part is when Alderaan is blown up. The reaction of Leia is not "I will kill you", "You b******s", "Nooooooooooo" , no cry, no despair. It's just "ahh" (or sth like that). Come on lady! It's not as if Darth Vader said "You can't go for a date, go to your room" or "No, I'm sorry, I can't give you my car tonight, daddy needs it". Your home planet has just been destroyed, billions of innocent people died, your family was probably there!!! Show something!!! Curse! Shout! Cry! Spit at his face! Kill Lucas (that would be the best idea)! Burn the Empire flag as a sign of protest! But for God's sake don't act as if somebody has just bought the dress you wanted.Now I hope that the plans for the remake of 'Casablanca' will change, as Ben and J.Lo should rather try in this one. They'd definitely win hands down.And finally, I can't believe it's #9 in Top250, especially when you see so many incredible movies below (Empire Strikes Back #15, Matrix #33, 2001 #58(!!!!), Alien #64, Blade Runner #80, to mention sci-fi only). But those didn't sell so many posters, toys, stickers etc.Better watch Empire Strikes Back instead.5/10