The idea behind it was great
There were some flaws with the movie. The animation is possibly a 6/10. There were a lot of animation errors that at some points in the movie, made it look very lazily done. The animation wasn't entirely broken, but there were definitely parts that could have been brushed over. Not as good as the first Lion King.

The voice acting was a 8/10. There were scenes where some of the lines spoken were just whispers, and were hard to hear without turning up the volume. A few times there could almost be a hint of awkwardness in the lines, but they were forgivable. I think that the VAing was slightly improved over the first Lion King, where it sounded like the voice actors were afraid to raise there voice to add to the drama.

The music would be a 7.5/10. A few of the songs were simple and short, almost like they were simply added in to say, hey, we made a song. Other songs were just there for fun and to progress the story quickly. There were a few great compositions and songs that really stood out though. The first Lion King did a better job with songs.

The writing was a bit odd at times. Perhaps a 6/10 rating. Some lines felt dull and lifeless, others seemed to want to add to the drama but didn't quite do so. And yet others seemed plain and boring, almost cliché as though the writers couldn't think of what to write that would progress the story along. The characters still remained who they were, it didn't feel the writers had left anybody behind though. Timon and Pumbaa were still themselves, as well, which was great.

Execution of story would be a 9/10 though, in my humble opinion. I feel that the writers and directors did a good job of telling a story, even if it didn't look or sound the prettiest. They did a good job of portraying Kiara as having the same curiosity that Simba had as a cub and Simba's struggle to raise her in a way that would prevent her from experiencing what he had gone through. It depicts him trying to stay in his father's paw steps and lead the pride in the right direction. Ever since watching this movie, I've began to realize that perhaps a movie doesn't need to have the best writing, acting and animations in the world to be good. Sometimes, it's the story behind it that can make the movie amazing, as long as it balances out with acting, music and animation. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, and it has a special place in my favorite movies right up next to the first Lion King as a classic, and fitting end to the series, even if it's not the highest quality movie around. I would definitely recommend this movie to anybody who is looking to see if it's worthwhile to watch.