Unremitting abuse
Why would anyone put themselves through watching this movie? Perhaps if they were grossly abused as a child and want to feel that their suffering was not as bad as that of the boy in the movie. That's the sole decent reason I can imagine. The director has shot it and cut it to convey the confusion and terror and inexplicable nature of abuse, even though it is never shot from the child's point of view, and not even the child is suitable for the viewers' sympathy. The worst problem is that, even though the trailers start with stating it is based on a true story, it isn't, so those watching it are having their trust abused. The book upon which the movie is based, in points, is a series of episodes that seem to be in the life of one boy, from infancy to late teens, written in "magical realism" style by a woman writer in the name of a male character she has invented and hired people to play at interviews and readings and celebrity gatherings. That invented character - increasingly played as trans-gender - in turn claims they are his/her true story. Such is the American literary world. The stories are from imagination, with the help of material from assorted psychiatric case histories which in turn were often biased to support baseless psychiatric theory. They show a marked lack of locational research. The film's director has cleverly removed the evidence of that lack, but the book's really damning fault remains - that it strings together a terrible progress of stories of gross child abuse as if they happened to one child and as if they somehow portray a developing character and situation, when they aren't, and don't. So the film, as the book, diminishes, makes to seem comparatively trivial, the reality of child abuse, at the same time as promoting theories that further abuse children by twisting the way they are seen. Children, for example, do not seek out sexual abuse in some way to emulate their mothers, as is implied. That is a pernicious lie based on psychoanalytic theory that benefits abusers. I watched the official French DVD with the English soundtrack, and French subtitles, which were rather bad. The influence of psychoanalysis in France may explain a DVD release there alone. The sensational scene on the cover of the DVD, with mother and son together in matching lacy women's underwear, make-up and curls is not in the movie.