Meh
The first season of this show was pretty decent but quickly declined after season three, in my opinion. Jennifer Love Hewitt is a gorgeous girl but it was super irritating that she was usually half-naked (i.e. breasts ALWAYS falling out of her tops), her hair was never done differently, when she cut her hair off it sure grew back fast! She's not that great of an actor, she was always crying/sobbing/whining/scowling and screaming. I realize the show was more somber than most out there but come on! All of the episodes follow the same general outline 1) ghost shows up and scares Melinda Gordon (Hewitt), 2) she screams and turns into the busy body of Grandview and breaks into someone's car/home/office but never gets arrested, 3) ghost doesn't tell her what it wants so she has to figure it out on her own, blah blah blah. Her relationships with her "guy friends" are a little too friendly for a married woman. Seriously, crying when her "best friend" leaves to explore other things when her husband should be her best friend. Anyway, it would have been good as maybe a one season show so I can't believe I watched them all. The thing that bothered me the most was that in season 4 they kill her husband, Jim. However, Jim, does not "cross over". Jim ends up stealing the dead body of another man because he cannot bear to leave Melinda. I'll admit, they had me glued to my seat for Jim to get his memory back after he stole Sam's body and had me bawling my eyes out when he did. I guess it's because I am horrified to lose my own spouse. In any case, the story REALLY went downhill after that. At the start of the fifth season Melinda gives birth to the baby that she and Jim made before he died (to which I might add, she got REALLY pregnant REALLY fast). Also, in the first episode when she has the baby they fast forward five years (soap opera much?) so they can neglect their child instead of neglecting their baby. Also, we are to forget that Jim was in Sam's body because his name is Jim Clancy and we never see Sam's face again (not even on Jim's ID badge at the hospital), we never hear Sam's name (except for when Aiden is born and they name him Aiden Lucas "in Sam's memory", as Melinda says), his concerned family never calls or drops by, blah blah blah. So is he Jim or is he Sam? Did Sam legally change his name to Jim Clancy? I'm confused! Love Hewitt is NOT convincing as a mother, she acts more like the aunt that spoils her nieces and nephews or a very loving nanny. Anyway, don't expect a lot if you decide to watch the show, it's alright. That's why I gave it six out of ten stars, basically a grade of D.