Here's a spoiler to save you the trouble. It's RUBBISH.
Two young girls are kidnapped. They are rescued at the end, but the blonde one loses the ability to act. They were kidnapped by the surviving widow of a couple who went round kidnapping kids in order to make people lose their faith in God, after their own son died of cancer. The nephew they adopted, who is unable to string a sentence together much, is suspected, abducted and tortured to death by Hugh Jackman, the blonde girl's father. At the end Hugh is drugged and bleeding in a deep hole, blowing a whistle which Jake G. may or may not hear.  There. If I can save just one person from having to endure this pile of dung, then my life will have had meaning.  You might think there would be fun to be had by pointing out complete nonsenses in the plot, characters and script of this film. There are so many, however, that it gets tedious. Just off the top of my head, then...  1. It rains and snows, heavily, all the time. However, Hugh Jackman is dumped in a pothole which miraculously remains completely dry, despite being covered only by a bit of tin and an old car.  2. In such abduction cases, the parents are usually initially considered prime suspects until eliminated. Despite the fact that Hugh Jackman is hysterical, violent, defensive and alcoholic, Jake Gylllenhall doesn't even have his house searched. The half-bag of lye he finds in his later casual inspection of the garage gets mentioned, then dropped.  3. Jake Gyllenhall assaults a suspect in custody, with the result that the suspect manages to shoot himself (yes, the 'gun in mouth, blood on the wall' trope again). Such a cop would be IMMEDIATELY suspended. Not our Jake, however.  4. Jake G arrests a priest who confesses to having imprisoned to death the husband of the evil couple in his cellar. Once that point is established, the priest and any reference to him completely disappears.  5. Blonde girl's mother, after having suffered hell for a week or so, blithely tells other parent to wheel her just-rescued daughter out of the room for a little while while she talks to the cop.  6. The maverick cop releases dozens of snakes into the community, without apparently bothering to determine whether they are venomous, valuable, or what; or bothering to retain them as evidence.  Oh dear. There are many enormous red herrings and dead ends in the plot of Prisoners, but not with any logic behind them. A character or artifact is placed to suggest one plot turn, then dropped immediately when another comes up (eg the 'Maze' thing). This is the sort of plotting that children in junior school do. And much better, as a rule. For the avoidance of doubt, this is a TERRIBLE film.