An extraordinary and unforgettable film about a bank veep who is convicted of murders and sentenced to the toughest prison
Superbly played film set in 1946 , a bright young New England banker is convicted of the slayings of his spouse and her lover and sentenced to life at a strict State Prison . Introspective and quite Andy (Tim Robbins) gradually befriends inmates and over the next 2 decades wins the trust of prisoners and wardens but in his heart he still yearns for freedom . There he forms a peculiar friendship with Red (Morgan Freeman), the prison fixer , he experiences the brutality of prison life with a sadistic head guard (Clancy Brown), and is also mistreated and raped ; however , he adapts himself and offers financial advice to the guards and the selfish governor (Bob Gunton) , all in a shot 19 years. As two imprisoned men bond over a number of years, finding peace and redemption through acts of common help , friendship and decency . But when the proof of Andy's innocence is ripped away by those who need his services ,we learn that all is not quite what it seems at this State Penitentary , provoking a few susprises in the last two reels .nThis is a very good and serious prison movie with thrills , emotion , exciting scenes , colour-blind relationships , hardnut camaraderie , gang opression , and violent disavowal of any homosexual implications . Prison buffs will find a lot of incidents to relish and the great spiritual resolution takes some swallowing and unexpected surprises . Adapted from the novella xa8Rita Hayworth and Shawshank redemptionxa8 ; the twist here is the upright starring is exceptionally bright , as his ability with accountancy leads to his handling the finances of everyone , from the humblest guard to the prison boss . Wonderful spectacle in watching time-passer while changing the bombshell actresses of the history : Rita Hayworth , Marilyn Monroe , Raquel Welch . US prison films have been making solid fares for more than sixty years and apart from slowness of pace in the second half , this one is well up to prison standards . This Frank Darabont's theatrical debut turns out to be a throwback rendition to the kind of literate , thought-provoking prison drama Hollywood used to make , such as : I am a fugitive from a chain gang , Birdman of Alcatraz and Escape from Alcatraz .Tim Robbins plays magnificently Andy , an inmate finding solace and eventual redemption , Tim provides his usual talent for playing ambiguous roles , as his notable skills are put to good use. Along with Robbins' best screen acting there are various Oscar-worthy supporting characters with special mention for Morgan Freeman as the good fixer who brings his ordinary grace to what could have been a thankless role , the veteran James Withmore as the crow-keeping librarian , the sympathetic newcomer inmate Gil Bellows ,William Sadler , Mark Rolston and the ruthless guardian Clancy Brown and , of course , the egoistic and nasty governor excellently played by Bob Gunton .It contains a colorful and evocative cinematography by Roger Deakins . And an enjoyable and really feeling musical score by Thomas Newman . In his engrossing direction debut ,Darabont avoids boring by fleeing most prison movie cliches . It results to be a pleasure of discovering a first-time filmmaker with evident respect for the intelligence of his audience , giving sensitive scenes , and brave enough to let roles details accumulate without recourse the excessively maudlin and over-sentimentality. It is a true masterpiece , being marvelously acted and perfectly paced.
9