I'm not even sure why I'm giving this a four. Really.
Oh boy. Where to even start.

I suppose that first off I had way better expectations because I was a HUGE fan of Aaron Paul in Breaking Bad, considering it one of the most brilliant shows I have ever seen. I was let down. Thankfully, he wasn't the worst actor in this film. Every single other person was.

This is the first film I've seen that Imogen Poots had a lead role in, and I will probably never see one again. There were a couple of parts that I had hope for her, but it only lasted a few seconds until I was questioning if this was the first film she's ever been in. I was also unimpressed by Kid Cudi (Scott Mescudi)'s performance. He is one of my all time favorite music artists and that is definitely what he should stick to, music. I guess it's not really his fault that the script was so awful and he was required to recite "joke" after "joke" that they were trying SO HARD to make funny (failed immensely), but I figured he'd have the balls to say "I'm not reading this crap on camera." As far as the other actors and actresses, it would be a waste of my time to even say anything about them, because it is nothing good. I don't even want to get started on Michael Keaton's washed-up performance.

The entire movie flip flops between emotional scenes (which are anything but) and action scenes. None of this flows at all. The scenes where you're supposed to feel some kind of connection between characters does not succeed. Nothing builds you up to them and they're all really awkward and you will feel no differently about anyone or anything going on in the film. The action scenes seem like they were thought up last minute and felt very rushed. It was like they had a five minute time limit on each one or else someone was going to murder their family.

I guess one positive thing was the visuals, which were alright. That's probably where this movie is getting rated anything above a seven, it's from the gear heads (no offense to anybody.) There were some pretty bad ass cars that were nice to look at and some of the action scenes were done nicely (looked nice) aside from feeling hurried.

To wrap this up, this is one of the cheesiest and most predictable movies I have ever seen. I called everything that was going to happen in almost every scene because it's been done hundreds of times in hundreds of films, all executed in the same way. I'm still not sure why the synopsis starts with "fresh from prison" because how prison affected his life is touched nowhere in the movie. I know that isn't a big deal but for some reason that just bugs me.

If you must see this movie, make sure someone else is paying or you have a free rental up for grabs from your local video store.
