Overwhelming and spectacular second part with some of the best action scenes ever made
This exciting sequel is full of thrills , cutting-edge visuals, stylist innovations , fights , tension , suspense and groundbreaking races , but also several commercial elements , including computer-simulated violence . This is a dynamic, fast-paced and amusing movie , though overlong . It's an enjoyable , if somewhat light-headed piece of escapism with state-of-art special effects and straightforward screenplay . Big-budgeted film by the great producer Joel Silver led to break into the booming Sci-Fi/adventure/fantasy market plenty of inventiveness and imagination . Full of action, it's complemented by rousing scenes , breathtaking flights and struggles are spotlights . It deals with Neo (Keanu Reeves) ¨who is thought to be the chosen one¨ and the rebel leaders estimate that they have 72 hours until 250,000 probes discover Zion and destroy it and its inhabitants. During this, Neo has to decide how he can save Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) from a dark fate in his dreams and he must find Merovingian (Lambert Wilson who is accompanied by a gorgeous Monica Bellucci). It is a dark time for the world in this second adventure. The epic war between man and machine reaches a thundering crescendo : the Zion military, aided by courageous civilian volunteers and led by councillor Hamann (Anthony Zerbe) desperately battle to hold back the marauding Sentinel invasion from overtaking the last human fortress . Neo, Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) and Trinity race against time and are advised by the Oracle (Gloria Foster) to encounter the Keymaker (Randall Kim) who would help them reach the Source. While the human city of Zion is preparing for the oncoming war with the machines with very little chances of survival. The city , the last outpost of humanity , is defended by valiant warriors (Harry Lennix, Gina Torres , Nora Gaye) against the massive invasion of the machines to save the humanity as Neo fights to end the war at another front while also opposing the rogue Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving).

This is an action-packed, booming following with some of the best vehicles scenes ever filmed , including awesome visual effects by John Gaeta. This thrilling movie contains impressive fights , chills , breathtaking designs , dense philosophy and many other things . From the beginning to the end the comic-book action-packed and extreme violence is continued and it's fast movement ; for that reason the picture is pretty amusing ; furthermore contains lots of car crashes on a California freeway and spectacular combats in mart arts style staged by Yue Woo Ping who also made ¨Kill Bill¨ and ¨Crouching tiger, hidden dragon¨ . Contrived beyond belief with spectacular races that play like video games , but slickly calculated to please 2000s audiences . Moving and pulsing musical score by Don Davis . Magnificent , glamorous production design by Owen Paterson . Colorful and imaginative cinematography by Bill Pope . The motion picture is stunningly written , produced and directed by Larry and Andy Wachowski-The Wachowski Brothers- .

The following to this futuristic saga results to be ¨Matrix Revolutions¨ in which takes place the final battle between machines and humans ; it holds similar artistic and technician team . And being preceded by the classic ¨Matrix¨ in which Neo aware the world he is living in is an illusion maintained by machines that have taken over earth .