A lot better than I was expecting...
PAPILLON  I thought it was really good. I had been putting it off for a while because it didn't really take my fancy... but last night I decided to watch it.  The movie is about a man who has been imprisoned on an island called Devil's Island and his numerous bids to escape.  It stars Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman... I have only seen a couple of Steve McQueen's films but I have to say he has been brilliant in them all. I will be looking out for more of his movies. Steve plays Papillon... and he plays it well. The stress and health problem his character goes through in this movie was horrible and believable to watch. At one point Papillon looked so ill that he nearly died. He actually looked really bad. He goes through such a rough time trying to escape but never gives up. He meets someone there who he gets close to and they try and escape together. Dustin Hoffman plays his friend really well too. I am not a big Dustin Hoffman fan, but this is one of his best films that I have seen.  The film is on for just under 2 and a half hours, which is very long... but to be honest it didn't feel like it. It didn't drag out and I didn't get restless during the movie.  I tried not to compare this to Steves other famous escape film, but I couldn't help it before watching it... but they are 2 completely different movies. If you have not seen this, do not compare them because they are not the same. I didn't like this film as much as the Great Escape though, but it was still very enjoyable.  The only mistake I saw whilst watching it was when Papillon was sitting on a makeshift raft floating in the sea and you could actually see someone swimming underneath his raft holding it to make sure it didn't move too much. I mean it really was very obvious, I noticed it straight away... but don't get me wrong. That just amused me and didn't ruin the movie.  I will give this film 7 out of 10... A really good movie, and definitely worth a watch.  for more reviews check out my Facebook page:  http://www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl