Great family film? Now THAT's funny.
This is the kind of movie that is so bad that, instead of being engaged with what is happening on screen, your eyes sort of glaze over, and you ponder things like: How do expensive movies like this get made in the first place? Did the producers owe the writers a favor? Was this nepotism run amok? Were the writers really professionals, or did they hijack a third grade writing assignment? Are actors like Ben Stiller and Robin Williams doing so badly that they couldn't pass up on this script? Did I remember to take the trash out? How long did it take that dust to form on top of the TV?

We watched this film after learning earlier in the day that Owen Wilson tried to commit suicide. Well, hold the presses everyone. I think we have a motive.

If this is suppose to be a fun comedy you would have better success making me laugh by tearing my skin off with rusty pliers and throwing me at a cactus.

Great family film? My kids sat through the entire movie without even a smile. When it was over they left the room without a comment. And that is the kind of movie this is. Some movies hit and miss. Some just miss. Some are so far below missing they leave you speechless. That's "Night at the Museum."

Somebody took an okay, albeit unoriginal, idea - museum display items coming to life after hours - and turned it into a horrible, unoriginal idea. And evidently, that horrible, unoriginal idea was supposed to be good enough. Sure, they tried adding more to it by injecting the subplot involving divorced dad Stiller competing with his new step-dad for the affections of his son. They not only stole this idea from 647 billion other films including "Liar, Liar" and "The Santa Clause" but then did a hack, half-derriere job of it.

Ordinarily I would give a point or two for the CG but the special effects and action sequences are incredibly uncreative and dull. And in many places, cheesy-looking.

Stupidest bit in the movie: Robin Williams, as the Teddy Roosevelt character confesses to Stiller that he is just a mannequin, and therefore doesn't have the character qualities that Roosevelt had to help Stiller out of his dilemmas. However, in direct contradiction to this, the Sacajawea mannequin somehow possesses all the knowledge and character qualities of the real Sacajawea. So much so, in fact, that she is able to help the frustrated docent fill in the blanks in her doctoral thesis about Sacajawea's role as guide for Lewis and Clark.

In decent movies, that is the kind of contradiction that has you wonder "Am I missing something?" In this movie, it is just another stupid part of a film that is consistently stupid throughout.

I could say more but it is depressing just to think about this lack of effort. If you ever needed proof that Hollywood doesn't have a clue when it comes to making quality family films, here you go.

After only about twenty minutes in, I knew this film had an excellent chance of bumping one out of my personal "Top Ten Worst Movies of All Time" list. By the end of the film, it was a done deal.
