A TRUE MASTERPIECE
La La Land is a movie from 2016 directed by Damien Chazelle starring Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone. Mia, an aspiring actress, serves lattes to movie stars in between auditions and Sebastian, a jazz musician, scrapes by playing cocktail party gigs in dingy bars, but as success mounts they are faced with decisions that begin to fray the fragile fabric of their love affair, and the dreams they worked so hard to maintain in each other threaten to rip them apart. - "They worship everything and they value nothing" - - What a movie. The score is perfect. Every single song. The direction by Damien Chazelle is just fantastic, unique and artistic. The acting by Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone is in another level. They both give the best career performance. The chemistry between Gosling and Stone is incredible. The cinematography was beautiful. Literally all the shots of the movie were amazing. The color in this movie is something else. The script was extraordinary and the dialogue was great. The comedy was effective and the musical/dance scenes aren´t useless. They serve as plot devices. La La Land is a entertaining, nostalgic, colorful, joyful film. - - - "La La Land is a movie from 2016 directed by Damien Chazelle starring Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone. Mia, an aspiring actress, serves lattes to movie stars in between auditions and Sebastian, a jazz musician, scrapes by playing cocktail party gigs in dingy bars, but as success mounts they are faced with decisions that begin to fray the fragile fabric of their love affair, and the dreams they worked so hard to maintain in each other threaten to rip them apart. - "They worship everything and they value nothing" - - What a movie. The score is perfect. Every single song. The direction by Damien Chazelle is just fantastic, unique and artistic. The acting by Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone is in another level. They both give the best career performance. The chemistry between Gosling and Stone is incredible. The cinematography was beautiful. Literally all the shots of the movie were amazing. The color in this movie is something else. The script was extraordinary and the dialogue was great. The comedy was effective and the musical/dance scenes aren´t useless. They serve as plot devices. La La Land is a entertaining, nostalgic, colorful, joyful film. - - - "City of Stars, are you shining just for me?" - - La La Land is a love letter to Hollywood and to Los Angeles, and it succeeds in every single way. The extravagance, the failure and the success. Also a film for real movie and music; jazz; La La Land actually made me like jazz. In this picture we have so much themes. Failure, passion, dreams, self-confidence and so much more. - - - "Here's to the ones who dream, foolish as they may seem" - - In conclusion, La La Land is a important and stunning film that deserves all the recognize that has. Really a special movie, that is unique. I absolutely adore La La Land. Probably my all-time favorite movie. This is cinema at his best. A perfect movie in every possible way for me. - - 100/100.