More Twilight Zone than Monster Movie.
A group of friends take a small plane to fly to a concert. Things go horribly wrong when they ends up in an endless storm cloud and attacked by a tentacle like squid monster.

I checked this flick out because the concept of a giant cthulhu like monster flying around in the sky attacks a plane? How B horror movie awesomeness if that? The cherry on top was that it's a Canadian film. The downside is that the monster takes second...even third seat to everything else in this flick.

The film has major problems, most of them are with the characters and their actions. I can only take so many jerk jock characters before I shoot someone. Here, that jerk jock character is one of the more obnoxious ones to hit cinema. Second, we have an emo kid who has hidden feelings for one of the other passengers, the girlfriend of the jock. Both of these guys are jerks in one way or another. The girlfriend is a film major, she has her little video camera and occasionally has to playfully hit her boyfriend for saying something inappropriate, nothing else. Finally we have the pilot, a beautiful young woman, who is actually a novice at flying. Her mother died in a plane crash when she was little, so it's obvious that she wants to fly and have no fears of it, right? Her boyfriend is severely underwritten and has too much importance later on in the film. He has a fear of flying and collects comic books, that's all we get.

The majority of the film takes place on the small plane they take, they are on their way to a concert. After some equipment malfunctions, they end up flying right into a storm cloud. Everything turns dark and they can't see where they are going. They freak out, rightfully so and start throwing baggage out of the plane because they only have a limited supply of fuel. Next thing you know, one of the characters is hanging outside of the plane, tied off with some rope. Completely plausible (cue eye roll). I got it, I laughed and we were having a fun time, finally we get a glimpse of the giant squid like creature in the sky and we are down one character. You didn't think he was going to live did you? Did you think everyone was going to make it out of this all peachy?

Instead of the film becoming a classic monster flick, Jaws for the sky, it takes a weird turn and becomes another film entirely. We enter a Twilight Zone/Outer Limits area and more events come to light. Some of these events are meant to be a surprise, but if you can put two and two together, you'll see it coming. The ending reminded me of The Butterfly Effect, so take that as you will.

The acting was pretty bad, specifically the boyfriend of the pilot. Has he ever taken acting classes? He can't even yell right and pull off a believable angry face. The only person who had some talent was the lead. I don't blame the actors, really, it starts with the script. The script throws these unlikable characters into a small plane and we are stuck in there with them. I wanted the damn creature to show up before they even took off.

Altitude is a rental, at best. The film had potential, but terrible characters and a different direction in the script makes the film fall short of being fun cheesy entertainment.