How did this film get made?
We open with a rude, rambling foul-mouthed voiceover from Jeff Bridges. This immediately turned me off. Then we segue into the lives of Thomas (young Richard Gere-look-a-like Callum Turner) and Mimi (miscast Kiersey Clemons). I don't know who dressed Mimi, but from the moment we meet her, it's clear she's in a dress that she shouldn't be wearing.

Thomas soon bores us with his whining about being in love with Mimi, who tells him they had a great night together, but they were on "molly." Thomas can't seem to get past the fact that apparently Mimi already has a boyfriend, and also, she wants to go study abroad, meaning Thomas can't see her.

Thomas wanders around in depression and returns to his apartment where he finds Jeff Bridges inexplicably sitting on the stairs to the second floor. Why Jeff is living in this building is unclear. But he almost immediately becomes a surrogate father for Thomas, feeding him questions to get information out of him, and then giving him unasked for advice. He also asks Thomas up to his apartment and turns on a cassette recorder (!) for "background music" (there is no way in hell the BGM would have sounded so clear on a cassette, as the cassette would have had to have been at least 20 years old, unless he's a nutcase vintage cassette lover).

To this "artfully chosen BGM," the two men blather on about Mimi.

I'm watching this and thinking: "And why should I care?" I wanted to slap Thomas's face. How would anyone think that the audience would be interested in his whining?

Then we meet Thomas's parents: Pierce Brosnan and Cynthia Nixon! Inspired casting choices. Pierce plays a rich publisher/adulterer. Cynthia plays a psychologically damaged socialite who has brainwashed her son into believing that unless he lives nearby, she will become borderline suicidal.

And then we meet Kate Beckinsale, who is having an affair with Pierce.

None of this has any meaning or importance or value or impact. It's people standing in front of a camera saying dialogue that an ill-informed screenwriter thought was great.

If Woody Allen did not have any talent or humor, he might have written this ghastly blabbering mess.

And then... Thomas gets it in his head that he has to get Dad to stop cheating on Mom, and so, he stalks Kate, but keeps losing his nerve. Jeff keeps grilling Thomas until Thomas admits that he wants to do Kate as well. And then... Kate and Thomas cross each other's paths at a Jewish wedding, where the groom (a friend of Thomas's?) uses a vulgarity that was so uncalled for and unnecessary that it proved to me that there wasn't going to be anything of value to come.

Thomas finally confronts Kate, and then decides to kiss her, sending the two of them into a wild affair.

At this point, my husband and I decided to go to bed. the DVD is sitting and waiting for us to finish it. I'm thinking... why should I?

These people bored me to tears; nothing they did or said meant anything to me, and I did not care about any of them. Two thumbs down, and I'm only about 40 minutes into it. Thank God I didn't buy a ticket to see this at the cineplex.

Days later... we watched the rest of it. It was worse than the first part. Mimi "comes back" and has broken up with her other boyfriend (we never meet him, so we don't care) and has decided she now wants to be with Thomas, who has been sleeping with Kate. We learn this while Mimi is wearing a hideous denim jacket over a gold sequined dress. It was atrocious.

Mimi runs off in the rain and the rest of the film is Thomas discovering the "truth" of his "identity" and who Jeff Bridges "really" is. It was pretentious, insulting, laughable, boring, forced, fake and borderline pathetic. I'm changing my 2-star rating to 1-star. Ghastly.