WARNING: Overrated MOVIE
This is a terrible movie. I want to save tons of people time and money. I am usually a very very faithful imdber, and most ratings I see on IMDb are very representative of the rating I would give it personally. (Most of the time I can guess a movies IMDb just by my own personal preference of the movie).

Anyways, I went to watch this movie knowing it got an 8.5. I expected it to be overrated by all the Watchmen lovers / cult people. If you have read the comic book (i think its a comic book not sure), I'm sure you have a different opinion of this movie.

For me, it was lame. This is why:

1) Very very slow movie. 2) Corny lines. 3) The action sequences were not particularly exciting. In fact I would say that I arguably didn't even see a single new type of scene that I haven't seen in another movie.

If I could include spoilers I would be able to let you know why I thought this movie was so bad. Since I can't, to give you an example of how much I didn't like this film, I went with 3 people. 1 left the movie 1 hour in. Me and the other felt like there was a chance it would pick up so we stayed in the movie. By less then the 2nd hour, I was asking my friend if he wanted to leave as well. We stuck through. As soon as we saw close to the end we got up and left.

This movie was terrible because it is a cliché and extremely excruciating to watch such a slow movie. The action scenes are nothing new, and just because a movie has a lot of blood in an action scene doesn't make it good. The voice of one of the main characters is so freaking annoying.

This movie at best deserves a 6. I would prefer to give it a 5.5, but a 6 is what I give it because the visual effects of the movie, are actually very well made. That was the one positive of the movie. Some very cool ideas, and some cool effects. However, dialogue, sequence, action scenes, everything else made it not good.

Be prepared to enjoy the visual effects, albeit in action sequences that are predictable and played out. Enjoy the cool quantum mechanics related ideas. But as for enjoying a movie? This isn't a movie to enjoy.

PS Treat this review from the perspective of someone who hasn't read the watchmen, but went into the movie thinking it would be awesome from the trailer. So no, I wasn't biased into thinking it sucked from the beginning, it just actually sucked from the beginning. I have no biases, I actually was hoping to see an amazing film. I was terribly disappointed.

Watch the Watchmen expecting a film that deserves a 5 on IMDb and you will get what you paid for. Watch it expecting a 8.4 (which it currently shows), and you will be EXTREMELY disappointed.
