Ahh Jennifer Garner, You Deserve Better Than This!!!
Though Daredevil wouldn't be considered one of the best comic films, it does, however, run circles around this terrible spin off starring Jennifer Garner as Elektra, brought back from the dead to become one of the deadliest assassins the world as ever known.

In Daredevil, Elektra was the daughter of Nickolas Natchios, lover of Matt Murdock, was rounded, showed emotion, and had a believable storyline throughout. In the sequel, Elektra, her character is reduced to nothing more than an assassin, given no reference to her past, she is cold, distant, detached from the world, says cryptic dialogue that makes no sense, and has a sudden change of heart when she sees her newest target is a father and a daughter. Instead of killing them, she protects them from the mythical Hand group, waiting to take the daughter and turn her to their evil ways.

Jennifer Garner truly deserved much more than she got in this terrible film. The screenplay was terrible to say the least, with dialogue that was either choppy or stereotypical. The supporting characters were more annoying than helpful in this flick, especially the daughter, Abbey, who unfortunately really can not act or play a convincing 13 year old girl who was given special abilities. Her scenes with Garner always seemed forced, unnatural, and fake.

The action scenes were surprisingly dull, given that this is fearsome warrior Elektra, but since the audience does not really care for the villains in the picture, the scenes turn out to be cartoony and uninteresting. Plot points throughout came off as hokey to the point of being laughable. the viewer starts to wonder, "Why are they sending ninjas instead of commandos with assault rifles?" Elektra is one of the bad comic book movies to come out which is disappointing since the character of Elektra really is interesting and would have made a better film if put into the hands of a director more open tot he fact that Elektra is a real person who dealt with real situations, not a superhero who is involved with all this supernatural mumbo jumbo magic. Too bad, it would have been interesting to see this turn into a trilogy.

Not Recommended.