highly reccomended
Sebastian (Ryan Gosling) and Mia (Emma Stone) against all odds keep running into each other very often. At first Sebastian didn't pay Mia much attention but Mia felt the energy when she saw Sebastian perform at a wedding. The two are quickly drawn together because they have the very same desire to reach their dream. Sebastian is an aspiring musician and Mia an aspiring actor so they are very much alike in the sense that they have a goal that they aren't pushing themselves to reach. They built a bond and fell in love with one another but there was still the desire to reach their goal of becoming a musician and an actress. Very briefly they both settled on being in a relationship and working jobs just to get by but Sebastian got an opportunity he couldn't allow to pass by. Sebastian joined a band as a pianist with an old friend and had to leave Mia alone. During this time it made Sebastian realize he could still pursue his own dreams and he got the courage to push Mia to obtain her goals. They were faced with the ultimatum of being committed to their relationship or allowing each other to move on so they could give their dreams 100%. In the end they both ended up succeeding in what they love but it meant giving up their relationship. The theme is the movie is making sacrifices if that will lead to true happiness. Though Mia really loved Sebastian and didn't want him to go on tour she knew he needed that to feel whole again. Even though that meant being apart from him for long periods of time she was willing to do that so he could reach his dreams. The theme was allowed reflected when Sebastian pushed Mia to go to that audition even though he knew it could potentially end their relationship. They both sacrificed the bond they built so they could find true happiness by chasing their dream. The movie did a lot of close ups in the film to allow us a more personal experience with the characters. The Film was focused on two main characters so by doing close ups it allowed us to focus on them and block out the background. The videographer also used bright colors to be attractive to our eyes. The film was happy and festive and the bright colors displayed that. The music used was upbeat and allowed us to celebrate the great love they had for one another.