Anti-story manages to make both Scarlett and Scotland look f-ugly. A feat of immense proportions.
(I probably should make clear that I literally knew nothing about this film before I saw it, as is usual for me, except it's genre and main character. I haven't read the book neither.)Look, I am all for minimalist storytelling, and getting away from the tired old Hollywood clichés and the all too predictable, over-explanatory fare these days, but this film is overdoing it.After all, it's FILM, a visual medium and you know ... at least PART of your film has to look visually ... not-ugly.Someone who gets that is Kelly Reichardt, which is why HER films are very superior. There's a story, a clear goal, the actors are more or less likable, and Reichardt doesn't hate her city-scapes. Glazers take on Glasgow was just plain ugly, a declaration of hate. Take a look at "Brownian Movement (2010)", any Chantal Akerman movie or even Philipp Glass' Koyaanisqatsi (1982) to get minimalism right.This is why photographers are on average good filmmakers. They know how to tell a story in images. I haven't seen Mr. Glazers other films, but based on this, it seems he's a writer who accidentally (and very unfortunately) stumbled into film.And this film takes the non-explaining to ridiculous levels. I couldn't connect once with the main character. What was the deal with the motor guy? A leeeeettle bit more dialog would've been nice and helpful. I gather from other reviews that she's supposed to change her ways, go through some realisation, she supposedly grows as a person. It's wholly unclear why that is, what the extent of the change is, and what that will lead to.Take a look at "The Road (2009)" on how to get this right. Same type of minimalism, but as a viewer you don't feel lost. It's not just that the actors were ugly, but they were all totally unlike-able. This film manages to make Johansson, who is not in the slightest way fat or even obese, still look that way, at times. She's no waif, sure, but if we talked about it as if this film was a pair of jeans, and she were to ask: "Does this film make me look fat?", we should be honest, and say: "Yes, Scarlett, you look fat in that film"I get it, filmmaking isn't easy. To distinguish between aimless wandering and minimalist story telling, between realism and just plain ugliness, between nudity that's natural or simply very unflattering, that is HARD. But that's why they get paid the big bucks.In the end, Glazer completely fails at telling a story through imagery. If you can't do that, you can cheat via dialog. But you can't shun BOTH. That's just dumb.But I am afraid that Kelly Reichardt and mister Glazer are perfect examples of the unfairness of the world. She get's it right, but doesn't get enough praise, and he gets it totally wrong, and gets way to too much.3 di 10.The Melancholic Alcoholic.