Batman film for a Batman fan . . .
Eight years after Joel Schumacher left the franchise utter ruin Batman Begins tries to start fresh and as most fans hope, let the Dark Knight stalk the city of Gothem leaving fear in the hearts of the criminals everywhere.

They have never done an origin of Batman and after having seen this movie I have to admit this idea was long over do. The film begins with Bruce Wayne played by Christian Bale who until now might have been Hollywood's best kept secret. He brings a desire that is both visible and filled with underlining appeal. The movie is supported as well by the incredible cast made up of Liam Neeson, Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman, Cillian Murphy, Tom Wilkison and Ken Watanabe. All these actors perform to almost perfection and do what supporting roles are suppose to do, support and not steal the story. But it is the performances of Katie Holmes and Michael Caine that particularly stand out. Holmes delivers and as a non famous character in the franchise succeeds by making Gotham seem like a real place and not a fictional fantasy city. She also holds her own with Bale and shows the conflict that is Batman Vs. Bruce Wayne. Michael Caine as always comes through with his cunning English wit and charm by giving Alfred a depth that we have not seen yet. In a sense this film is about why Batman does what he does and what made Bruce Wayne become Batman. Michael Caine does the same for Alfred by giving us a reason as to why he does what he does.

Gone are the on liners, the odd sound effects and the roller skates. Back is the dark brooding batman that has purpose behind his choices unlike some other heroes that do what they do because it is the right thing to do. But what was particularly interesting about this film is we get to see what other people think of Bruce Wayne "the prince of Gotham". This is something that has for the most part never been addressed and should have been.

Was there anything bad? I can't really think of anything in particular. The movie is dark maybe scary for younger views but fun for anyone that likes to see a man come around from a boy to a reckless youth to a man with a purpose. The film doesn't rush it's self and keeps a decent pace that is neither confusing or hurried. If I had to choose anything that was wrong with the movie I would have to say the score which seems none existent. I would have liked to see something bigger. In making that criticism and I am stretching for one.

A great story, direction, acting and overall desire to make a good movie are all present in this film and here is one vote to have another Chris Nolan Batman made. BATMAN the DARK KNIGHT has returned! Well, begun.