An Interesting Concept with a Handful of Inconsistencies
Inside Out is the hit Disney-Pixar animated movie about emotions, specifically emotions living inside a person's brain in a somewhat human form and controlling how people react to things. It's an interesting concept, and for the most part it's presented well, but there are flaws for sure.

The plot is, like I already said, interesting but flawed. It bothers me that people are saying that this is an incredibly original concept despite the fact that it's been done before. It's just the most popular use of the idea, but it's not the original. The story itself, however, has a handful of really good ideas, but there are inconsistencies with it too. The disappointing part is that most of the inconsistencies are actually pointless scenes that don't add to the story but instead end up taking away from it. There aren't a lot of them, but there's enough to take away from the movie itself. Most of the inconsistencies would spoil the movie, so you'll just have to watch it to understand. Other than that the ideas are good and some are even pretty amusing.

The characters are okay. I found the most interesting characters to be the parents personally, with Riley being as flat as a pancake and everyone else just not being important enough to even remember by the time the credits roll. For a movie about emotion, Riley really isn't presented in a very realistic way. Sure, at times she's good, but most of the time her character is just inconsistent. The parents were, on the other hand, much more consistent, and funnier most of the time.

I think that this movie had a great beginning and a great ending, it was just the middle stuff that struggled. It's a very emotionally intense movie, especially towards the end. I felt much more into the movie at these points, and even on my third watch I got a bit emotional about the ending. The movie felt a little too short as well, but maybe that's because I've seen it so many times already.

Overall Inside Out is just good. I think that I loved it so much originally (I gave it a 10/10) because of the ending. It was pretty emotional the first time, but after the second watch I started to question it. By the third watch I found inconsistencies and a handful of things that I just didn't like about the movie. Ideas and such that just weren't nearly as good as I remember. In the end I'd still certainly recommend this movie, but if you want to really love it then don't analyze it, because otherwise you'll notice the things that I did (probably).