The True Ending: Deep Analysis
As a kid I was never interested in star wars, for one reason or another i just never watched any of the movies. It wasn't until I was 17 years old, that i was visiting my grandparents for the day and i decided to watch some cable, I came across a star wars marathon, it happened to be the final battle of Ep 1, where Darth maul fights Quigon and kenobi, i was literally spellbound and i never once took my eyes off the screen. I was blown away by star wars so much that i decided to watch the rest of the 6 movie saga in one night. My life was forever changed that day. Recently I decided to have a star wars marathon, and give a up to date review of the 6 movies.Story: Han solo is being held captive by jabba the hutt and Solo's friends perform a complex but amazing rescue. The ancient jedi master Yoda dies, leaving Luke Skywalker as the last jedi. Which is bad timing, since the empire has already finished constructing a second death star, and the rebels are getting ready for one final assault that will decide the future of the galaxy. luke is emotionally conflicted, because his duty is to save the galaxy from the emperor and Darth vader, but he cant help but feel that he can save his father from the dark side. A physical and spiritual battle takes place in one of the greatest saga endings ever conceived.Characters: Luke has finally matured and has become a jedi knight, accepting his parentage, luke is determined to save his father from the dark side, even at the cost of his own life. Despite luke being the hero of this trilogy, when he confronts the emperor and vader, he decides not to fight them but instead redeem anakin, which makes luke a unconventional type of hero. Darth vader is humanized more than ever in this film, despite being the villain, we see him being conflicted, depressed and resistant to hurting his son. Also we witness how he is the slave of the emperor, and that anakin skywalker is still alive within him, which is why luke never gives up on him, even to the point of sacrificing himself, just so anakin could resurface, fulfilling the chosen one prophecy. Han solo has the funniest lines in the movie and he is shown to be the spearhead of the rebel attack. leia is put into uncomfortable situations in this movie, which she overcomes by being the determined leader of the rebellion, and as she learns certain truths, she remains focused on the mission at hand. Lando redeems himself for his betrayal, by being one of the most heroic and influential rebels in the final battle. Darth Sidious the emperor in his only appearance in the original trilogy, steals the show, he is truly evil incarnate, and despite appearing frail, he proves to be the greatest threat he has always been as he attempts to force luke to give into his anger and the darkside, so he can make both luke and vader his slaves. Jabba the Hutt is only shown for a little while, but his ego and puppetry make him very memorable, grotesque, but enjoyable as the first villain in this movie. Yoda has a small role but a meaningful one as he gives luke his last advice before he dies. despite being a puppet, yoda death feels so real and sad, but you feel he deserves it after a 1000 years of constant struggle and war.Action: The battles seem to have been scaled down in this film, but there is still plenty of action adventure to go around. The battle over the sarlacc pit is one of the most engrossing fights in all of science fiction. The speeder chases and battles with the ewoks are very atmospheric in the forests of endor. The final space battle against the second death star, can seem repetitive, but is shown just enough to keep it fresh. The final battle between vader and luke does not have the best choreography but it is full of raw emotional energy as the souls of these 2 men hang in the balance. Most of the special effects still hold up, such as jabba's puppet work, the lightsaber fights, and the emperors force lighting.The Special Editions: A lot of critics and fans had issues with the special additions Lucas made, but because i didnt grow up with the versions before the added effects, im less bias. While the first 2 movies had cgi effects inserted they weren't as heavy as the ones used in this movie. The most egregious one would be the jabba palace song and dance number, its not necessary and its too weird. Most other effects are too obscure that i just notice them. i truly appreciate the addition of several planets and cities we saw in the prequels being used during the celebration scene, it really makes the universe of star wars feel bigger. The original Anakin seen in this movie was played by Sebastian Shaw and while he still portrays a dying anakin, he is replaced by Hayden Christiansen's anakin as a force ghost, i honestly prefer this, while it doesnt make much sense in universe, seeing Hayden, connects this movie with the prequels better, and makes the saga more satisfying, for me it doesnt ruin this heartwarming scene but improves it. The soundtrack also had several changes, the best ones being luke and vaders lightsaber fight and the final celebration song made by john williams, that replaces the original song "Yub Nub", is far more emotionally powerful and melancholy.Legacy: On its own, this movie is not the most impactful, besides the luke and vader dynamic the rest of this movie can be lackluster when it comes to the battles and effects. Which is why this movie was intended to be watched with the previous 6 films, to create a unbearable amount of stakes and story development. After i watched all 6 films from episode 1 to 6, I felt I had been through a life altering experience. The Skywalker Saga is one of the best cinematic experiences i have ever seen, and i feel it is the reason why i and so many other fans are obsessed with the universe of star wars, even beyond the movie's story. Lastly, I don't not acknowledge Disney's trilogy in any way as a sequel to this saga, and i personally believe their efforts, attempted to sabotage this monumental saga, which is why there are only 6 episodes in my canon. This is the only ending to the star wars saga that i recognize, the prequels and the other 2 movies, together successfully create a profound and compelling story that i would dare say rival most Greek tragedies, I will say with confidence that this saga is one of the greatest works of fiction ever. Thank you George Lucas.