An enjoyable, cartoonish comedy
The following didn't make a huge difference, but it did raise my rating a bit more than one point. I rented this disc from Netflix. I was enjoying it moderately, but thought it had enough problems to merit a low 7, or a "C". It got to the 50-minute point and had a glitch. I had to exchange it. I got the replacement a few days later and felt compelled to re-watch the first 50-minutes, to get back into the "groove" of the film--especially knowing that I wanted to review it. Oddly for such a short time span, I enjoyed it a lot more on my second viewing, feeling that it was a solid 8, where it remained for the rest of the film.

Are We There Yet? is primarily aimed at a youth market--from about 5 or 6 years old to mid-teens, approximately the ages of the two child stars of the film. It's cartoonish and unrealistic. The humor is mostly "innocent", although the expected bodily function humor is present. It is somewhat predictable and sentimental. If those qualities turn you off and you're not going to show the film to kids, you should probably stay away from Are We There Yet? I happen to like a lot of kids films. I like "cartoonish". The bodily function humor stuff still works for me--although I'm middle-aged, I never got to the point where I was that concerned with seeming "mature", and I don't suspect that I ever will. I don't care if a film is realistic or not. I don't mind predictability or sentimentality. I laughed out loud at least once every few minutes and I smiled a lot otherwise. There are a lot of "fun" scenarios, as this is basically what I call a "Going to Hell in a handbasket" or just "Hell handbasket" film (see my review for The Out-of-Towners, 1970), and that is one of my favorite subgenres. If you have tastes at all similar to mine, or your kids do, there's a good chance this film will be enjoyed.

The story brings together two sets of characters (remember that a set can have one or even no members, in which case I guess we could say that the story brings together as many sets of characters as we like, but that's too odd a tangent for such a short review). On the one hand, we have Nick Persons (Ice Cube), a player (roughly meaning a serial dater who has no inclinations towards commitment) who runs a successful but smallish sports collectibles store in Oregon. On the other, Suzanne Kingston (Nia Long), a divorcée who just opened the party planning store across the street. Nick falls for her as soon as he sees her, but she has two kids, Lindsey (Aleisha Allan) and Kevin (Philip Bolden), and Nick hates kids. At the same time, Lindsey and Kevin hate the idea of anyone but their estranged father being with their mother, and they do their best to sabotage any potential suitor. The fates, or at least scriptwriting conveniences, bring Nick and Suzanne together under adverse circumstances, and they strike up a friendship, which Nick hopes will turn into more. Suzanne senses his kid-aversion, so she keeps him at a distance. However, Suzanne gets in a bind when she has to travel to Vancouver and no one can take care of her kids, so Nick is recruited to bring them to Vancouver. Chaos, or gradually going to hell in a handbasket, ensues.

Although Are We There Yet? is essentially, or eventually, a "message" film, director Brian Levant is much more concerned--and rightfully so--with making a wildly cartoonish comedy. Remember that Levant is the guy who brought us both Flintstones movies (1994 and 2000), as well as fare like Snow Dogs (2002), Jingle All the Way (1996), and the earlier Beethoven (1992) and Problem Child 2 (1991). I liked all of those films, too, and they're all also cartoonish to an extent. Part of the problem for some folks might be that here, the cartoonish aspects are "tempered" with a mood almost approaching realism. But it would be a severe mistake to expect Are We There Yet? to be believable with respect to the real world. That's not the aim of the film. This could easily be a Disney film, and it has many of the fantastical or unrealistic elements that you'd expect from that style of film-making.

In addition to his skill with cartoonish comedy, Levant is a fine technician. There is a lot of attractive cinematography in Are We There Yet?, although nothing where the style is overbearing to the story. All of the effects-work, including a well-executed CGI personification of Nick's conscience in the form of a Satchel Paige bobble-head, and the fine stuntwork are seamlessly integrated into the fabric of the film. Levant is skilled at directing his cast, who all turn in performances that were more than acceptable to me, and he also does a great job with blocking fairly complex action sequences. The relatively minor score/songs are even well incorporated and add to the story.

To me, Are We There Yet? seems like a case of a viewer going in (or not) with proper expectations. If you don't like the approaches and content that I've mentioned above—such as cartoonishness, CGI-fueled talking bobble-heads, bodily function humor, and predictability for experienced cinephiles--you should exercise good judgment and not bother with the film. If you or your kids enjoy this style of film, you'll certainly find enough here to make Are We There Yet? worthwhile, and it's a great way to introduce kids to the "Hell handbasket" genre. In other words, like always, you should exercise good sense. If you have very particular tastes, if you have a somewhat limited set of criteria for good film-making (such as "good films must be realistic"), don't expect to enjoy every film.