Talk about overrated
Warning: Spoilers
I don't get why people fawn over this movie so much. It's ideas are not actually original at all, as they have all been regurgitated from many of the great Sci- Fi stories of the twentieth century. It's not like it is the first film to get viewers to question reality. What about Dark city? That film came out a year before this one did, and does way more with its plot. In fact, I suspect that Dark city was an experiment to gauge audience interest, and The Matrix creative team decided that adding guns and action will bring a bigger audience. The story is intriguing, but in the end it actually goes nowhere. It's another Jesus allegory- only this time it has bullet time and sci-fi tropes thrown in. Seriously, how long is Hollywood going to rely on the Jesus allegory to rake in cash? Probably forever. The action scenes, while revolutionary at release, are dated - mostly because there have been about a million imitators, and about one thousand of those imitators were able to improve upon it because of the technology afforded to them. The movie is still entertaining,but, contrary to what its fans say, it is definitely a turn your brain off at the door type of movie. It's the type of movie where every plot hole and inconsistency can be excused with: doesn't matter- computer simulation. Which is fine, but it is literally the only excuse this movie has when something does not add up. There is no attention to the details in the universe of this movie. The Wachoski brothers obviously came up with more backstory to fill in the holes after having realized how successful this movie would become. Some of the characters are well developed,and most of them I could root for, but all of them are given some truly terrible dialogue to work with. Both the delivery and the writing of the dialogue in this movie is bad. Not Transformers bad, mind you, but bad enough to take me out of the movie every time someone spoke. Hugo weaving is given the best lines in the movie, but he makes his lines work with the character he is portraying. The acting in this movie is average at best. While I'm quite certain that most of the characters were supposed to act cold and emotionless, some of the more, ahem, challenged actors in this movie can't act out cold and emotionless very well. Keanu Reeves and Carrie Anne Ross are completely unconvincing in their roles- and, considering they are both main characters, is a pretty big knock against this movie. Definitely not the masterpiece it is made out to be. 6 out of 10.