An 80's comedy with two of the best
Planes, Trains and Automobiles is a cross country comedy film that provides a sweet inner circle but also contains some good lines and comedy acting from two of the best. With it's crazy plot(which is pretty fun though), and of course John Candy, the film manages to be a great kind of stupid at times, mixing the right amount of jokes with the right amount of drama and capable acting skill. I felt this film was safely a good one, and here below is why so.  The story as stated is a little crazy and can even be said to be silly, it goes well though, I personally enjoyed the chemistry between the two given the situation and the ending of the film is pretty sweet indeed. It goes a nice pace because the film is not a long one and this makes it even better, never afraid to rush scenes and the dialogue and things going are not done lazily at all, just some good work put in here.  Steve Martin is not in his main funny role but he likes his angry main character role, and that's what he provides, funny anger. John Candy is the real funny man of the film and we feel sorry for him on more than one occasion, he just exudes laughs and warmth and even though annoying, still a good guy in the end. I loved the chemistry between the two, they work so well together and more collaborations would have be welcome, if it were not for Candy's untimely death(in real life).  John Hughes directs and writes this just as a comedy and possibly drama genre should be, his skill in the screenplay is plainly seen as I said about the un lazy scenes of the film, hard work put in for sure. It of course with the commotion provides some wonderful back drops really crediting the USA's countryside, an easy view to the eye, well usually when the two are in happier times and places.  The film Is not without criticism, I found that the story although yes is fun, it is also predictable and watching it for the first time you just knew what was coming next. It isn't also super funny, the sweetness of the story is what also helps this but the comedy can really lack at some points. I will say on that point, Candy saves the day a few times, and coaxes Martin in to being a funny guy.  If you like this kind of lazy afternoon comedy fun time then this is for you, it really is a film that is to be watched when one is happy. For those who are fans of either Candy or Martin, you should love this, it seems to bring near the best out of them and when they work together in certain scenes here, it brings a wealth of expertise. For those who love these funny 80's comedies that came out quite a bit, then this is also for you, has all the elements that various films of the decade also had and even more new things too, just good fun, and for all the family(just about).  Overall it is Safely a Good movie. As I said before watching on a lazy day and chilled, this can be a wonderful film, I do feel parts were never crying out with laughter but it does provide chuckles in various places. Just adore the chemistry of two of the 80's best when it comes to this kind of comedy, it doesn't rely on physical comedy as well and I have to say I have a lot of respect for the film because of that, just enjoy it.