Hope? Nope
The eighties was an age of Cinematic Fairy tales, some were orgininal but most were adapted. Here they are in chronological order: Dragonslayer, Krull, The Neverending story, Legend, Labyrinth, The Princess Bride, and Willow. As a novel, the Neverending Story is probably a fine fantasy. As a movie from director Wolfgang Peterson, it is nothing more than a cardboard fable, which doesn't even attempt to hide all its clichés. This is possibly the worst fairy tale on celluloid.

Like the Princess Bride, this is a story within a story. It begins in the present day. Since his mother's passing, young Bastian has lost hope in the world, and is subsequently doing poor in school. One day he gets his hands on an old (and very big novel). He hides in the attic of his school and begins to read. The story takes him to the land of Fantasia, a magical world which is being destroyed a terrible force of nothingness. All the inhabitants of this world turn to the empress for help, but she is sick and dying, the last hope is the young warrior Atreyu who must go find a cure. Bastian continues to read, even after the school has closed down and he is forced to use candles, eventually he will find that he too has a place in this story.

There are times when The NeverEnding story kind of resembles the Jungle Book, our hero is in fact a kid, and not much of a character at all. He even looks like Mowgeli, a toothpick dressed in rags. The creatures he encounters on the journey, look equally ridiculous and fake. Whatever money Peterson had was clearly not enough to make convincing effects. Even the starry night sky in one scene is so badly painted and dressed that you can see the outlines of the plywood backdrop on which it is painted.

On top of all this, The Neverending Story is plain dull. Its intention is to reignite the dying spark of fairy tales, but if anything, The Neverending Story is more liable to have people thinking that there is no hope for the fairy tales. If it is hope you want go for the Princess Bride, leave this on the shelf to collect dust.