So much potential, but it's sadly squandered
Warning: Spoilers
You'll find a lot of scathing reviews of THE LAST AIRBENDER around here. I'd like to give it a fair, level headed review and point out its positives, though I will address its fatal flaws.

This COULD have been a better movie. The trailers and commercials were actually rather promising. But in trying to cover an entire season of a popular cartoon show, it ended up being rushed and disjointed. Director M. Night Shyamalan writes a script that plays like ambitious fan fiction that cherry picks some of the seasons most popular & important moments from the season while throwing out pacing and character development.

I had hoped that what happened to Peter Jackson would happen to Shyamalan and that making something completely different from his previous works would be just the thing he needed. But I forgot that Jackson put a lot of work and effort into his pre "Lord of the Rings" movies while Shyamalan is the laziest director ever (he's even admitted it in interviews) and that he is a humbler, more grounded director.

It isn't entirely Shyamalan's fault. At the last minute, Paramount Studios decided to convert the movie to 3D, which ended up doing more harm than whatever good it could have done, and had several scenes cut that might have helped flesh out the story and add character development.

I'll now get to the good parts. It looks really good, with settings and costumes that often recall its source material and really nice cinematography. There's James Newton Howard's sweeping, stirring music score. I liked the bending effects. They're no perfect but I don't always want my SFX to be like in "Lord of the Rings" "The Matrix" or , Heaven help us, "Avatar" because sometimes that's too much to ask. I liked the action scenes. I liked the imperfect but earnest performances by Noah Ringer and Nicola Peltz as heroes Aang and Katara, Dev Patel's anti-hero Zuko later in the movie (though his early scenes leave something to be desired), and Shaun Toub gives the movie's best performance as Uncle Iroh, capturing the spirit of his character perfectly.

But the rest of the cast is unintentionally hilarious as they give bad performances like a poorly done high school production of Shaekespeare. In particular, Jackson Rathbone is as stiff and dull as he is in the "Twilight" movies (they may as well call his character "Jasper"). Cliff Curtis is just silly as Fire Lord Ozai (both in appearance and performance). And Aasif Mandvi gives a strange performance as Commander Zhao, though the fact that the character was rewritten from being ruthless, fierce, and intimidating to being a gloating, weak, underhanded goon doesn't help. The situation is even worse thanks to the hollow, exaggerated dialogue the actors are forced to say that even hurts the better performances.

The film is also a rushed sense of pace with events happening so quickly we don't get a chance to catch our breath and exposition repeatedly (and over dramatically) told to us to help us keep up. When characters have to talk about plot points every ten minutes or so, that's a clear sign you have a script that's too busy. And to top it all off the movie is poorly edited, going from place to place in its scenes so fast and sudden some viewers might get headaches.

Paramount is hoping to make "The Last Airbender" into a trilogy, with each entry based on a season/storyline from the cartoon. The ending certainly hints at things to come. But the negative reaction and possible box office failure may stop that. If there is a sequel, they better get another director, and if they don't they really need to get a different writer. Because the first entry had a lot of potential...but it was hopelessly mired by uneven acting, awful dialogue, a terrible sense of pacing and crappy editing that may kill the trilogy before it can really start.