A Western Masterpiece
The second entry into the world of Sergio Leone's western landscape delivers more nerve tingling gun duels, a greater insight into what drives the characters, and a more powerful soundtrack which in all Leone films forms the basis of what he is trying to portray. Leone uses the brilliant Ennio Morricone music to demonstrate the emotions of the characters, and the situations that they find themselves in.Fresh from the successful film A Fistful Of Dollars, Clint Eastwood stars again as the Man With No Name, a man who is identified by this spaghetti poncho and his fast drawing gun action. As the title card states "Death Sometimes Had Its Price, That Is Why The Bounty Killers Appeared" basically describes the motives of Clint Eastwood's character, he is a bounty killer that goes up against criminals that have a price on their head.However like anything in life there is competition, for Eastwood it comes in the form of a quiet, intelligent and efficient killer Col Douglas Mortimer played brilliantly by Lee Van Cliff. Mortimer is driven by a deeper motive, one that goes beyond reward money and goes closer to his heart. Lee outshines Eastwood in most of the scenes with his efficient killing style, and his vast array of weaponry.Eventually both men collide as a villainous and psychotic man El Indio escapes from prison, and plans with the help of his ruthless gang to rob the bank of El Paso. Gian Maria Volonte plays Indio with such perfection and realism, and gives the viewers a much more in-depth look into his character. As viewers we sense that Indio is a disturbed man, with a long past that has made him psychotic and ultimately evil. It was enjoyable to see Volonte have a wider role as the villain, as in the previous film A Fistful of Dollars his villain Ramon Rojo didn't really go into second gear. As the film progresses Eastwood and Lee's characters realise that they must form a partnership in order to bring down Indio and his gang of killers, both for different reasons.For A Few Dollars More is one of the best westerns ever made with its greatly orchestrated gun duels assisted by this breath taking soundtrack, making it a must see western. This has always been my favourite in the Dollars Trilogy as it has a well told story and just one you cant take your eyes off. A Brilliant Director and A Brilliant Film!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!