No summary necessary
What is striking about this film is how it has affected its intended audience. It isn't intended to be for general consumption and I hated the gore. But I loved that it was hard for me to figure out.

The best indication of how successful the script writer was is that the comments from the people he was attempting to entertain show such knowledge of films, create such beautiful turns of phrases, and OMG even use "correct grammar", etc., etc. But I think I understand what the writer was trying to provide for all of us who were this strongly affected by the movie.

First of all, a writer needs to select an audience, and this guy sure picked a doozy of one. It must be the hardest audience to try to entertain. It takes one to know one, so he must be like all the others of us who have written comments (I'm basing this claim upon having skimmed 20 comments). I believe that his script was aimed at the minds of everyone who can almost always anticipate a minimum of 90% of the "twists and turns" in any plot and often even the exact dialog that will appear on the screen within the next 15 seconds to 120 minutes or so.

It's so easy to watch a movie and roll your eyes because the people who collaborated on a script weren't as empathic, intelligent, creative, or nontraditional as you are.

But for someone to actually be this successful in touching the most untouchable audience of all with his first movie script... well, we all better keep our eye on this guy.

Oh, and although I could hammer so many aspects of the film, I LOVED that in my case my usual ability to predict what would come next dropped from 90+ to maybe 20%.

There is nobody in an audience as sophisticated as this who hasn't known all their lives about the basic concept underlying this movie. But ask your self this... what might the movie have been like if a scriptwriter like this hadn't written it? Would the surprising impact this script had upon you have inspired you to leave any comment whatsoever?
