It is as bad as everyone assumed it would be
I have to admit I've been curious about this film since I learned Joseph Gordon-Levitt, my favorite current actor, was cast as the villain of the 1980s cartoon series. I kind of expected it to be not very good, but there has been a small amount of buzz coming out since the day it premiered, mostly saying things like, "It's not as bad as you'd think," but some actually declaring it to be a decent big, dumb, fun action flick. And, let's face it, this summer has left us hurting for that type of movie. Unfortunately, G.I. Joe doesn't fit the bill, at least for me. I'd place the fault mostly with the acting. Like so many of these kinds of action flicks (it is pretty much a superhero movie), the good guys are extremely boring compared to the bad guys. This one is especially bad in that respect. Not only are they boring, a couple of the good guys I straight up wanted to die. Channing Tatum is the lead, and he's God awful. Calling him a block of wood would be insulting to formerly living organisms. If I had known Marlon Wayans was in the picture, I may have at least waited for video. As always, he's only here to provide painful comic relief. Dennis Quaid can be a welcome addition to some movies, but very often he's there just to cash a check, and is really bad. This is one of those times. The only Joe who's even worth having on screen is Rachel Nichols as Scarlett, probably just because of the awesome red hair (dye job, of course). She's cute, and isn't a completely crappy actress. All of the villains are fairly interesting. Byung-hun Lee has a good presence as Storm Shadow, far more than his Joe counterpart, pouty-lipped Snake Eyes (played by the always mute Ray "Darth Maul" Park). Sienna Miller's breasts steal the movie every time they appear (she's not a half bad actress, either). And Levitt is by far the best thing about the movie. I mean, the role is pretty crappy, and he doesn't necessarily seem like he belongs, but he has fun with it, at least. The film does contain one pretty awesome action sequence, a chase through Paris with the villains racing to destroy the Eiffel Tower (it might have been wise to avoid showing it falling in all the promotional material, because that is the film's biggest moment). It's well choreographed and you can actually see what's going on, unlike so many action sequences these days. Most of the rest of the action sequences don't live up to that one, though, and the finale is just a cheap rip-off of the Star Wars movies.