Who ever gave this film an Oscar is unforgivable!!!!
This movie would not be half as atrocious as it was if it hadn't won 4 Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Supporting Actor for Gene Hackman, and Best Editing. Simply put, this movie is unforgivably bad. It had no umph behind its story, a retard behind the typewriter, and one of the least talented actors of all time manning the helm. The content of the film could've been powerfully put together as a means to expose the horrors of the true old west, as opposed to the many western before who glorified it. But the way Unforgiven is woven together leaves no room for the audience to admit the tragedy of the situations happening on screen or even be entertained and caught up in the magic of a western. Instead the audience is horrified by the tastelessness of the dialog, sexual references and violence. This film has no purpose. It's not entertaining, exciting, compelling, tragic, or even believable. I'm sure something like this did actually happen in the old west, but to tell you the truth, I believe more in the story told in the previous movie I critiqued. The cinematography (which was nominated for an Academy Award, but thankfully didn't win) was a complete atrocity! I believe I saw one good shot in the entire two hours that I suffered through this film. If you're famous and you want to make a movie, I have no problem with that. But when industry praises a film unjustly, while putting brilliant work down or at least putting it in the background, the cruelty of this world surfaces. Such brilliant work as Rob Reiner's A Few Good Men was not even allowed one win, even though it was nominated in 3 of the categories that Unforgiven won (including Gene Hackman winning against Jack Nicholson). Even worse is that Robert Redford's greatest film, A River Runs Through It, wasn't even in the running. I'm remembering back to one of my previous revues of director Clint Eastwood's Bronco Billy (another flop in my book) when I say that again this film isn't dramatic enough to work. I would have given this movie a quarter point higher in my rating if it wasn't held up as something so great, but no more sympathy from me. Clint Eastwood, you do a better job in the cheesy Spaghetti Westerns from Sergio Leone; they at least can entertain.