It sat in limbo for several years and was completed without some of the most important filmmakers...'nuff said.
"Accidental Love" is a film which had HUGE production problems. The filmmakers ran out of money and the film sat for years. And, it was so famous for this that it was an entry in the book "The Greatest Films You'll Never See". Then, after being auctioned off years later, the film was completed...though many of the folks who had been working on the project refused to return to complete it! As a result, you have a movie that is, at times, a bit incomprehensible and confusing. Again, when you are trying to salvage a project, this isn't all that surprising.

What I DID find surprising were the reviews. Despite the weird way in which the film was completed, it was, at least in many parts, quite enjoyable....but there are quite a few reviewers that give it scores of 1 and talk as if it's the worst film ever made. Well, it simply isn't...or even close...to being the worst film. So why do so many attack the movie? Perhaps it's because the folks were angry about the film being in favor of national healthcare or the gay angle tossed into the story (completely out of the blue) towards the latter part of the movie. All I know is that I am guessing that folks hated it so much because of the film's message...which doesn't seem 100% fair. On the other hand, the film is at times so confusing and disjoint, I also couldn't understand a few reviews that gave the movie 10s and 9s. How could a film that took almost a decade to complete AND without all the crew and actors get a 9 or 10?! Both extremes seem unfair....and the truth is somewhere in the middle.

The first 30 minutes of the film (parts of which were added much later) worked very well. While you wouldn't think having a woman getting a nail shot into her head sounds unfunny, the whole thing was handled well and was funny. It was only when the afflicted woman went to Washington, DC, that things began to become confusing and, at times, kind of dumb. It's all a real shame, as there really was a germ of a great idea for this film...but after a while it just seemed to become incomprehensible and bizarre just for the sake of being bizarre. A mess...but a very interesting mess. Perhaps they should have just left this one on the shelf...though it was, occasionally, quite fun.

Budget:$26,000,000 (estimated) Cumulative Worldwide Gross: $24,487