In comparison to cartoon and characters.....eh it was alright.
When you go into a movie based on a cartoon or video game you are already at viewers own risk. There are a lot of negative reviews on this so I will try to shine a little light on some positive things first. Starting off the graphics were great and I liked how the introduction started off like the animated series. I've watched all the seasons of Avatar with my wife and two girls, so it was refreshing to see it start off like the cartoon. Appa the air bison looked great and the graphics for the different nations attacks looked pretty good. My only complaint on those action sequences were the slow pace. Aang's moves were to complicated. He twirled his staff way too much to perform one basic attack.In the cartoon Aang could preform moves easily and lightly by barely moving. The attacks were all really slow. And only started to pick up in the end. And the fire nation acted like Zuko's uncle was the only one who could make fire straight from his hand. They all had to use fire in their surrounding area to do anything.

Moving on to the acting. They all acted out of character. Katara did okay and Zuko was almost on point. I'll even give a little credit to Zuko's uncle who at least sounded like the character from the series. But everyone else was stiff. I hated Sokka...with emphasis. He was to big and bulky and his acting was stiff and boring. He barely ever joked and took everything to serious. He seemed like someone out of a military movie. Topher Grace could have done a better job. He needed to be skinny and funny to pull off that character, both of which he was not. Now Aang, Aang did okay but he was way to serious too. The Aang I know was lighthearted and childlike. Did a lot of things spontaneously and acted on emotion. This Aang did not. While he did show some emotion for the loss of his fellow people he clearly failed to personify the innocence of the character. Even the Appa and Momo barely acted like themselves. The most entertaining thing Appa did was let some children play with him in the beginning. That was about it, you couldn't even tell Aang and Appa had a close relationship. And Momo did not show his curiosity enough, but he was cute and Appa was beautifully animated. Zuko did a great job. The only thing was, he was played the role a little more confused and whiny than angry. I would like to have seen him a little more passionate about his anger. And the burn scar on his face could have been better and a covered a little more area. Looked more like he had been punched then burnt. Now I'm not trying to pull a race card because i'm Asian American but I thought they could have at least looked a little like their character. A little bit less white and slightly more islander or Asian. Sokka and Katara looked nothing like the series. They were way to pale skinned. Aang looked okay. He is very light-skinned anyway. The fire nation was the only people who looked the part. The plot pretty much stuck to the series which i did like a lot. It took a lot from the episodes and put it into the movie. Overall. I love the series so I would still get the movie when it comes out. But if your child likes just the idea of Avatar being a movie and disregards the way the characters act then I would say give it a fair chance it was still a pretty good movie. P.S. Just to note, the most annoying thing about this movie was the way the mispronounced Aang, Avatar, and Sokka. It irritated me the whole movie almost as much as Sokka's acting.