Nothing great, but watchable
While the first Zero film was really something new in the Lithuanian film industry, the second film in the series does not feel all that fresh. To be honest, I expected that this film would keep the good things about the first film and add something deeper, some philosophical point or moral. What I saw was the plot which followed the same formula as the first film and did not seek to invent something. Add some bad acting, some unanswered questions which I consider to be plot holes (what happened to the Asian guy? Where did he ever come from? Did Max buy implants for his wife? Did the boss ever find out what really happened?), even some mistakes (which are clearly not intended) in spelling, and what you get is what you could expect from a movie created and shot in several months.. It feels rushed, unfinished, and kinda cheap. Which, surprisingly, was not so much felt in the first film. The advertisements in the film are plentiful, but hey, you have to get the money from somewhere, and although I can immediately name 5 companies which advertised themselves in this film, the ads are more in place than in the first feature and spoil the fun much less.This one really left you with a feeling that another sequel in on the way. Do we need one? I hope that this band of filmmakers is capable of taking new topics and maybe even addressing some eternal questions which arise in good films. There was no such moments when you start to wonder, is the film I am watching really about what I see, like in Pulp fiction when the mysterious case is opened.. Clearly the film was inspired by Tarantino and Ritchie, but they did not continue making gangster films forever.. I hope this will also be the case here. I would love to see this company making a history film or adaptation of a book, as Tarantino and Ritchie did. The good things. Lithuanian cinema is so bad that things like swearing in the film and non-linear plot are still novelties here. These things are really well used and measured. The jokes are mostly not funny, but the whole situation is fun to watch. There is some potential for this film's crew. Therefore, I have to give a 7 for this film, for its possible legacy in the future.