Unique, Keeps You on the Edge of Your Seat with All its Twists and Turns
I absolutely love this film. "Now You See Me" is like nothing I've ever seen before. "Now You See Me" tells the story of a group of magicians called The Four Horsemen who use their skills to pull off some of the greatest international robberies of their generation. Featuring Daniel Atlas (Jesse Eisenberg), Merritt McKenny (Woody Harrelson), Henley Reeves (Isla Fisher) and Jack Wilder (Dave Franco), the Four Horsemen make a dream team of street magicians. Since they have made their stunts public, allowing the world to "witness" the robberies, authorities are in hot pursuit of the four, now wanted criminals. Detective Rhodes (Mark Ruffalo) is accompanied in his search for the illusive magicians by Thaddeus Bradley (Morgan Freeman) and French detective Alma Dray (Melanie Laurent). Will the Four Horsemen be able to pull of their final act without being caught, or will it be curtains for the criminal performers?

The plot is so original and full of fresh ideas and witty comedy. I love how fast paced this film is, I swear there isn't a dull moment from beginning to end. The plot itself has so many twists and turns it should be a pretzel, but it keeps the audience guessing the whole time and hits you with major shock factor. The acting in this film is incredible. It features a group of incredible actors - Morgan Freeman, Jesse Eisenberg, Dave Franco, Woody Harrelson and many others. I love how each character has a unique quirk and personality that you can really see, but they all work together so well. The cinematography and special effects in this film are phenomenal. It is bursting with rich colors and textures, drawing you into the magic and making the illusions appear so real. The soundtrack is also amazing. It is suits each scene very well, while keeping a consistent theme and feel throughout the movie. "Now You See Me" is definitely not one to miss.

It's hard for me to pick a favorite character because I love all of the Horsemen, but when it comes down to it I have to say I like the characters Daniel Atlas and Jack Wilder. Daniel, played by Jesse Eisenberg, often tries to assert himself as the head of the Four Horsemen. He is controlling, very specific and difficult to deal with, but he is also the funniest character which is attributed to all of his demanding qualities. I love every film Jesse Eisenberg is in and I think he is perfect for the role of Daniel Atlas. I also like Jack Wilder, played by Dave Franco, because he is the craftiest of the magicians. He isn't the "card trick" or "read your mind" type, he's just a good old fashioned pick-pocket for whom no door is ever locked.. He is sort of the "muscle" to the operation because he is able to help the horsemen get out of tight situations and he is also very funny.

My favorite scene is when the Four Horsemen have to escape from the FBI after their second robbery. Jack Wilder has to stay behind to burn secret files. When he has an unexpected run-in with Detective Rhodes, an action filled fight sequence and high speed chase follow. This scene is filled with suspense, action and incredible stunts and it shows that the Horsemen are always two steps ahead.

I recommend this film for ages 12+ because of violence and mild mature language. Overall I give "Now You See Me" 5 out of 5 stars.

See Raven's video review on kidsfirst.org
