Phenomenal Work of Art!
The Wachowski Brothers are back at it again.  After their big hit with "The Matrix" in 1999, they decided to do another film, and to be honest, it won't let you down. This film is intensely thrilling from beginning to end, and really gets the adrenaline pumping. This futuristic story follows a man known by the alias 'V' (Hugo Weaving), a masked freedom fighter, who battles for justice against the government in London.  Put up against the totalitarian British government, a mild-mannered woman, Evey Hammond (Natalie Portman), was rescued from an urgent situation by V. Very captivating and tremendously skilled in the arts of combat and deception, V, using unconventional and questionable methods, urges the citizens of London to rise up against the tyrannical rule of Britain's chancellor, Adam Sutler (John Hurt).  As Evey slowly uncovers the truth about V's mysterious past and that of her own, she emerges as his unlikely ally in the culmination of his plan to overthrow the British government to bring freedom and hope back to society. Hidden behind the Guy Fawkes mask, Hugo Weaving really proves he is a versatile actor. His character provokes thoughtful questions in a dystopian future, and every emotion of his character is brought out with such elegance. Portman also excels as she really is the heroine of the film, and she handles the role quite well. The overlying plot to bring justice to Britain is taken aback at times by the unlikely bond between V and Evey, and the scenes between them are touching and well handled. The film's use of darkness effectively displays the dystopian state of Britain. Although a lot of scenes were shot outside, they were always dark and in tight corners to give you the feeling that you were constantly being monitored, which you were. Also, the use of camera angles help distinguish the powerful from the weak. In the beginning of the movie, the camera always angled up towards the chancellor from the point of view of the people. This exemplifies the authority the chancellor has over the citizens of Britain. As the movie progresses, the camera angle slowly rises and eventually is directly overhead all the people in the streets. V is an idea, a symbol, a metaphor that cannot be destroyed.  A man can be killed, but as an idea, he is indestructible. His message becomes more powerful as people gaze upon him, but not the man underneath the mask. One man can only try to make a difference in society, but as a united force of men and women, great change can be achieved. An exciting adventure to say the least, this film has all the works: great directing, captivating script, phenomenal acting, and is in its own way, breathtaking.
