World makes no sense

This is a desert world where they pump thousands of gallons of water out of giant pipes, basically the most inefficient delivery system possible, so that the vast majority of it is lost and soaks uselessly into the ground.

This is a world where heroes get their hands on weapons and fire rounds into the ground for no apparent reason, despite the fact that in such a world every single bullet would be immensely valuable.

It's a world with seemingly no food and yet the ability to feed hundreds or thousands of people who power everything through muscle.

this is a world where the technology is so limited that they have to use human beings on giant hamster wheels for power, and yet they are able to determine random people's blood types and rig up complicated blood transfusion systems.

This is a world where a woman falls in love with some random ass pasty white guy for absolutely no apparent reason other than that he's there.

Towards the end of the movie one of the women makes a statement "I thought he wasn't crazy, anymore," despite the fact that no one in that group could have any idea of Max's history, mental state, or the scene that had just taken place inside his head. There is ZERO reason for her to make that statement, and yet she made it.

The feminist metaphor is so cartoonish that the women might as well have walked around with signs around their neck reading "feminist metaphor."

Oh, and gasoline/diesel is extremely hard to come by in your world? Hey, no problem, fuel a giant freaking truck for no other purpose than to act as a mobile stage for an electric guitarist and a bunch of drummers...you know, because in a world where resources are rare, you've got all the fuel in the world to do such a thing.

This movie is great so long as you don't think. It moves very fast, with lots of explosions and inexplicable visuals, so you could conceivably watch the whole thing without ever stopping to think about how most of it makes no goddamn sense. This is, indeed, what must have happened. I can think of no other reason how people could watch this and call it "smart."

Things move so fast that you never get to know any of the characters in any meaningful way. Max is the stereotypical "psychologically scarred loner." Gibson was able to give that character depth in past movies, partly due to his acting but also partly due to the fact that the movies stopped to breathe long enough at times to get to know him.

The writing is terrible. Throwing in some feminism doesn't change that. I am completely dumbfounded at the enthusiastic response to this mindless stream of dreck.