A really disappointing let down
Unfortunately the Simpsons movie fails in its attempt to translate to the big screen. This is both surprising and disappointing as whereas shows like south park have more and more pulled in ratings by pushing the boundaries of bad taste, the Simpsons even though has included more adult humour as of late has always primarily relied on excellent set pieces and a fantastic and varied supporting cast.

The last of these points illustrates one of the main failings of this movie, the cast of supporting characters are given less screen time than in a normal Simpsons episode which makes the movie feel like there is something lacking. The story is also wildly implausible even by the Simpsons standards and also feels void of any real substance, most Simpsons episodes involve a small scale situation which sometimes but not always progresses to a larger scale with the humour revolving around the Simpsons handling of the situation, not giving too much away but the progression of events feels rushed and with the talent of the writers you feel they could have thought of something better .

Unfortunately as with many movies that I have personally seen lately most of the best bits of the film are in the trailer. Everyone in the cinema was obviously looking forward to the arrival of spider pig but apart from what you see of him in the trailer he is discarded very quickly which left many people confused. The jokes are also hit and miss some of them actually made people in the cinema groan, this was again a disappointment as the Simpsons is known for laugh out loud moments. The movie also rehashes at least one story line which has been covered several times in the various seasons of the Simpsons, this either feels like laziness on the part of the writers or an attempt to include a storyline which they know has kept viewers attentions for several years and will help as the producers of the movie said to introduce the movie to those people who had not watched the Simpsons before. This being said it still feels that the writers could have thought up a fresh idea for both fans and newcomers alike. As some people who have watched the film will know there is one moment of nudity that while drawn was none the less more shocking than funny and from the reactions in the cinema it was ill advised, parents were tutting, some children were laughing heartily but some stared at the screen not really sure what reaction they should have, this moment was in total contrast to events at the beginning of the movie where an itchy and scratchy cartoon has been toned down, this made the film feel a bit of a mess.

In conclusion the Simpsons movie suffers from a lack of what the show is all about, a superb support cast, simple yet effective comedy and a story that while not totally unbelievable doesn't leave you scratching your head as to what the hell is going on. This movie is the most disappointing film I have seen in a while which is a great shame.