Ungodly long - too many errors - and just plain Bad
My initial thought after leaving the movie theatre for WATCHMEN was that I had just paid ten dollars to see a movie which should have gone straight to DVD. First, it is a horribly written script - dialogue should do two things in film: reveal character, or advance the plot. Too many times did they have unnecessary scenes (the fire rescue followed by sex scene?) and dialogue which had nothing to do with the two points mentioned. The soundtrack of the movie was mostly songs from the 60's and 70's even though the movie "takes place" in the the 80's. They should have gone with a Hans Zimmer style of orchestra not the cheesy jimmy Hendrix all along the watch tower - it just doesn't fit in with the movie (none of the songs do), this isn't Forrest Gump it's a "crime comic book drama" if you can even call it that. Again with the dialogue, too many times are they telling you instead of showing you (visually or through dialogue) what they are doing or what is happening - the director doesn't give the audience enough credit. Take a look at the errors section for this movie, the list is endless more than most any other movie out there (I won't even go into all of those errors and how bad they make this film). Terrible acting overall too. Roarshach looked like a Danny Bonduce knock-off, and that mask he had was a ripoff from Batman begins (when he puts it on and is like "tell me what you see" to the doctor so dumb - trying to be like the scarecrow). And Billy Crudip the best actor in the movie we don't even know he's in it - because he's a blue guy with no emotion. Zack Snyder couldn't figure out if he wanted to make this like a comic book movie or a real drama action - and that really hur the movie. There are too many stupid little fight scenes that have no point in the end all product of the movie. In the end, you need more than a bunch of explosions and blood spilling to make a good film. Definitely one of the worst films I have ever seen.

P.s. The rape scene between the comdeian and that lady - so unrealistic, it's like they have a choreographed rape scene..I mean c'mon - so cheezy. Also very cliché' to have the comedian be the Father to the girl -saw that coming form a mile away.
