One of My Favorites!!!
Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse Review:Into the Spider-Verse is a new Sony animated movie about Miles Morales, a Spider-Man, who discovers multiple versions of Spider-Man from different dimensions after an experiment gone wrong. I absolutely love Spider-Man. He is my favorite character of all time so I was super excited for this. I loved Into the Spider-Verse! Everything was definitely thought through very carefully, taking into consideration all the comics and backstories for each character. The story was amazing. It was trippy and just fantastic. It wasn't really predictable for the most part which is really good. The voice acting was really good. Shameik Moore as Miles was by far the best part. His emotion was really good and you could feel for him like you knew Miles. Jake Johnson as Peter B. Parker was really good. I thought that Spider-Man was funny and just enjoyable. Mahershala Ali as Uncle Aaron was very good. Mahershala is just a really good actor and if was cool to hear him voice acting. Brian Tyree Henry player Jefferson Davis and he was a great voice actor for Miles's father. All the characters had great development. There were three Spider-Men that came later on that I really liked but didn't have too much exposition on them, but it made sense for them not to have to much. Throughout the film when we meet all the Spider-Men they do exposition on them and they do it in a comedic way and for those three they didn't need to go too deep so it worked. Also the villain of the story, King Pin, had a great design and looked like a good villain but he kind of failed a little. I could see his views after his backstory was revealed but I wanted just a little more out of him. This film had some of the best animation I've ever seen. They made it like a comic book and it looked beautiful. Also the movie is a bit trippy so some of the scenes were just beautiful looking. I could talk about this movie for a long while but I don't want to get into spoilers. If you love Marvel and Spider-Man there is no way to be disappointed. I would recommend it for sure. It'll be nominated for Best Animated Feature for the Oscars (it was nominated for the Golden Globes). It's now hard to say if this or Incredibles 2 will win. This movie has higher ratings but Incredibles 2 is Disney and they almost always win. Once again see it! I absolutely loved Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse!!!My Grade: A