An example of Nolan's early spirit in movie making. A rare gem with a fantastic climax
Excellent movie. This movie shows Nolan's early spirit in movie making, as this is his second feature film. However this is not for everyone. Even if you're a die-hard Nolan fan, you still might not like it. It was in my cup of tea, so I loved it. The movie is a complete mind bender. It doesn't play in order. It jumps from the past to present a TON of times, so it can be a hell lot of confusing. It's a slow movie, but fantastic. It grabs your attention from the start till the end. The suspense builds stronger as every second ticks by. If you haven't seen it go see it now, because in the second part of my review I'm going to talk about the ending. The ending is something to talk about. There is a plot twist at the end, rather twistS. It is one of the most unpredictable twists ever. Spoiler Alert! As many of you have seen the movie, you will know the ending is completely mind blowing. I never expected that Leo had killed the attacker over a year ago, and that now he kept forgetting and believed that the killer is still alive. Also another crazy twist was when Teddy told Leo that Leo's wife survived the attack, and that Leo himself killed her by accident with an insulin overdose. The real shocker was when it was revealed that Leo was mixing Sammy's life with his life. Everything that was said about Sammy, indeed revealed Leo's life. Totally mind blowing. There were like 3-4 twists at the end, which blew me away. To be honest, I didn't even expect one of the twists. I was blown away because there were many twists at the end, and none of them were predictable. From all the movies I've seen this movie had the second biggest twist ending, right after "The Prestige", also by Nolan. This movie is very suspenseful and interesting. It doesn't let your interest leave until the very end. In short, fantastic movie and it deserves at least one watch. For me many more watches. Nolan never disappoints. Not one of his movies disappointed me, and I've seen all his movies, including his short films.
