A Classic that leaves Cinematic and Intellectual Wound on Religious Poignance.
Zakhm (1998) :
Brief Review -A Classic that leaves Cinematic and Intellectual Wound on Religious Poignance. I have watched almost all Top rated films of Ajay Devgn and this has to be The Most Impactful and Powerful Classic of him. I can't say the same for Mahesh Bhatt as i am yet to see some of his known Classics but Zakhm should stand in Top 3 for sure. Bhatt made the film after 5 years from Riot events and he was busy making commercial films by copying from other industries then he decided to write this fresh script and delivered one of the finest product of his career. Zakhm is not a story of one hero or heroin, it is a story of one peculiar Family and somehow of our society to some extend. A religious identity of a woman didn't let her live a married life she dreamt but her death becomes a wound for her childrens and creates some differences due to political propaganda helmed by some opportunists. I don't see any mistakes in the writing, it's a Top Class piece of solid writting wood. There are conflicts that will force you to think, there are some scenes which tell a lot about religious issues and how the hatred is not good for humans, and at last the Love angle too is fantastically driven. Watch out for the scene when Sonali Bendra realises the meaning of True Love and the scene when Ajay Devgn reveals about her mother's religious identity. Mahesh Bhatt has made one complete package of so many things and i wonder how accurately. With Zakhm, Ajay Devgn set a standard of acting not only for himself but also for other Bollywood actors. He deserved the National Award but i feel he should have had more scenes and more space but he was stopped by the writing which included important portions from his childhood. Pooja Bhatt shines equally. She did a great job considering the kind of unconventional role she played. Nagarjuna, Sonali Bendra were good enough with their cameo roles. Supporting Cast has done a nice job and Kunal Khemu, Akshay Anand, Saurabh Shukla, Avtar Gill, Ashutosh Rana definitely deserves a mention. Musically there are ups and downs. 'Gali Me Aaj Chaand Nikla' is the only memorable stuff but others songs are situationally effective. Zakhm has got some Unforgettable and Hard-hitting dialogues- "Maa aur desh badla nahi karte", "Maa ki Koi Jaat Nahi Hoti" these 2 can never fade away from my memory. Mahesh Bhatt directed the film without adding any masala or useless stuff and this is something which will be remembered for years not only for the great script but also for his brilliant direction. I honestly feel that there should have been more intellectual portion in the end which was missing and that Final scene of Pooja Bhatt and Nagarjuna in Heaven was totally unnecessary because it clearly indicated that director's focus was still there at Love Story when the film has gone through some terrific religious tensions by that moment. One more little scene on Social Message there, and Zakhm would have been a Masterpiece, for now a Classic is not less though. A Must See !RATING - 8/10*By - #samthebestest