Another Blumhouse cash grab
I know it's silly to expect any kind of realism in a movie about an invisible man. But every movie at least has to make sense within its own universe. This movie has so many plot holes and logical inconsistencies which are horribly distracting.

So the boyfriend pretends to have committed suicide, something which his brother (and executor of his will) proves to Elizabeth Moss with a photograph where the boyfriend is clearly recognizable. His face isn't mangled or anything, he has just cut his wrists. So who pronounced him dead and how? Did the brother show up to the police and the coroner with a photo of his brother and go "Hey, here's my dead brother, let's get started with the execution of his will. What do you mean 'evidence'? Just trust me, bro!"

Apparently the boyfriend was some optics wiz working with refractive projection and multiple cameras. Something which is explained in a six second insert of an article about his suicide. Nice backstory, bro. Actually, there is zero backstory in this movie. We have no idea what the relationship between Moss and her boyfriend was like, I guess we just have to take her word for it. There is zero character development, the boyfriend is just crazy apparently. I can't really call him a character at all, he's just a plot function. Why did the boyfriend build this suit at all? Was it only to stalk Moss in case she ever broke up with him? And why is his brother in on his scheme?

And I thought for quite a while that her sister and the black cop were dating, but apparently not. What is his relationship to Moss that he allows her to move in with him and his teenage daughter? Just friends?

The way the suit works is inconsistent. When the invisible man holds a gun the entire gun is visible, but the cell phone he used to take photos of Moss sleeping is nowhere to be seen. I guess he waddled out of the room like a duck after stuffing it someplace safe where the sun don't shine. And if the suit is built with cameras and projection, why isn't the ground or carpet under his feet completely dark? What about the insides of his thighs and his armpits where the cameras are just filming one another? Would it be visible or a video feedback loop? And how is the suit fooling more than one spectator at a time, viewing it from different angles? I'm getting "Die Another Day" flashbacks... If the movie was engaging, these are probably not questions I even would have though of. But here we are.

But say we buy all this. The main problem is that as a horror movie it isn't particularly scary. There is no real sense of dread. I'm not talking about jump scares, those are startling (and cheap), not scary. And I'm certainly not talking about gore either. And it's far too long. This movie has no business being longer than 100 minutes.

The Kevin Bacon version has two things working in its favor. First of all, there is a motivation for the invisibility and why he goes insane. Secondly, it's set in a limited and secluded location where the characters were trapped for the most part. In the 2020 version, Moss is roaming all over the place, all she needs is an Uber.