Rogue trip
There's nothing more patronising than armchair critics like me suggesting that if others don't like something then they just haven't "got" it - but perhaps a little preparation is needed before taking on Cosmopolis. I sure didn't think much of it first time around, especially given David Cronenberg's other, more accessible work. This is not conventional filmmaking, so one shouldn't expect it to provide the sorts of pleasures and answers that conventional films provide.

On the surface, this is a movie about a hyperwealthy upstart named Eric (Robert Pattinson) taking his limo across New York to get a haircut. On the way he converses coldly with various associates and advisers, as well as his wife, Elise (Sarah Gadon). Then there is a final showdown with his would-be assassin, heartbreakingly played by Paul Giamatti.

The simple story is the surface upon a deep thematic lake. Really, it is about humanity in the modern technological age. It poses questions about how, in a world where we've myriad means of communicating in virtual realms, we struggle to communicate face-to-face. Cosmopolis concludes that technology has distanced us from each other, and by extension our selves.

The film goes out of its way to alienate us. Over 100 minutes, there isn't much in the way of standard plotting. Characters come and go without "arcs". The protagonist is, for the most part, an apathetic entity. But gradually a trickle of humanity seeps through. It becomes apparent that Eric is returning to his past - his birth - and it inspires him to confront his death. The final confrontation is an explosion of emotion, made all the more moving by the heartless dialogues that preceded it.

Pattinson, all beauty and blankness, proves to be ideal for the role of the drifting satellite at the film's centre, providing the gravity for a cast of orbiting philosophers. Cronenberg writes cleverly, all verbosity bouncing back and forth, landing nowhere. He films his claustrophobic nightmare in uncomfortable close-up, first with symmetry and light, and later, as we draw closer to the hidden human being, with disorder and darkness.

Cosmopolis is ambitious. It's unusual. It's intelligent. It's art.