A well-thought-out film with strong performances and deep meaning
The story is set in New York where everyone is trying to become someone, though only a few make it. Our protagonist, 20 something Thomas (Callum Turner) is struggling to become a writer despite his father's disapproval and pressure to find a more stable job. He struggles between what he wants and what his father (Pierce Brosnan) says is possible. His mother (Cynthia Nixon) suffers from depression, is a frequent smoker and seems unstable, he feels the need to take care of her which prevents him from moving away and maybe accomplishing his goals. His crush, Mimi (Kiersey Clemons) does not like him back and sees him as a friend. He feels like his life is boring and like he does not have an interesting story to tell the world.

Then he meets a mysterious old man (Jeff Bridges) who appears to have everything figured out. They become friends and share life experiences. His life completely changes when he finds out his father has a mistress named Johanna (Kate Beckinsale) and decides to persuade her to break up with his father for the sake of his troubled mother. He falls in love with her, forgetting Mimi and complicating things. He finally lets his father know about him and Johanna. After a while, we find out Jeff Bridges is actually his father and when he was talking about having fallen in love once he really was talking about Thomas's mother..

This film is slow so it will not be anyone's cup of tea but it is well thought-out, well acted and has a deeper message to convey: it's never too late to find your place. It is never too late to follow your heart. Thomas's parents sought stability and certainty so they stayed together although they knew they wanted other people or had to give up on their dreams. But after many years of marriage, they finally understood they were unhappy, so Thomas's father found a lover and his mother smoked while regretting how she handled the past. But meeting Johanna helped Thomas find out about his biological dad who encouraged his talent but also improve his relationship with his other dad (who was always trying to keep him down to earth and not let him go after his dream job).

His father stays with Johanna, his mother finally gets the chance to be with her true love (his biological father) and Thomas decides to give writing a chance although he knows failure comes before success. So this film is not so much about cheating as about finding your identity, learning to cope when you think there's no hope or turning back and chasing after the people you love or your dreams.