Brainless
This movie starts off with an orchestra playing on and on and on so long at least 10 minutes that I thought something was wrong and I started to fast forward the thing....then when the credits finally rolled I thought I had missed a key part of the beginning plot..I wondered how Bacall came to rent an expensively furnished penthouse apartment? as a sublet?? Turns out there is no detailed explanation. She rents an apartment calls Monroe who has another friend and the 3 get on with their business of finding millionaire husbands. There is no background to their friendship etc... it just happens.

In 1953 when this film was made, Monroe is 26 Bacall is 29 and Grable 39. (Assuming you believe the Hollywood statistics.) Like another reviewer stated Bacall has this curiously old persona (he used the word "ageless"...one could have believed her older than Grable in fact I found myself studying her face finding it hard to believe she was under 30. She also monopolizes every scene in a bitchy way that no one could possibly find sympathetic or appealing. I guess this was to show she was the brains of the operation. One thing I noted Bacall didn't need to insure her rather hefty legs for 1 million (like Grable supposedly did.)

Monroe has some innocent charm and Grable is sort of the Betty White from Golden Girls...with Bacall being the Maude.

I may have smiled at a couple of Bacall's cynical lines but she is too harsh in the movie. Monroe was sort of funny in the Magoo role but most of this movie is not funny at all and you begin to tire of it towards the end wondering how long you are going to have to endure it.

It also seems chopped up, the male characters become mixed up....what was the fashion show all about? If you are in to period female costume extravagance this movie will work for you. Maybe it had to do with the new color cinema-scope they were using....thinking clothing in all its colors was a great way to show off its features??? Here is an oddity that truly had to be for the wide cinemascope features...all the doors in the apartment are double wide and opened from a nob in the middle (trivia).

Don't really recommend it. The characters are not likable at all. The plot is idiotic and full of holes. Humor mostly missing.

Forget all romance and character development which this thing pretends to have.

Brainless... The sets are almost entirely glossy set ups that prefer to look artistic rather than real.

AVOID