Trite and Melodramtic - Worst Marvel movie since the original X-Men Trilogy
I'm not going to waste a whole lot of time breaking down the movie Logan. There are over one thousand user reviews on IMDb and by now interest in this movie has waned, plenty of people have already critiqued it in detail and added to that, few people will stumble upon the page of reviews that mine ends up on. And as wordy as I am, I'm ironically just posting this review to save people time that could be better spent elsewhere. So here goes... my fast review

SKIP TO HERE

-Have you seen Children of Men? If you have, you've already seen this movie. Logan is Children of Men's future for mutants. If you haven't, watch Children of Men instead. It's not the best, but it's better than Logan (as always, Michael Caine > Patrick Stewart)

-Do you know what Oscar Bait is? If you do, take my word for it. This is the best way to describe Logan (although the idea that anyone involved in Logan could be so delusional as to think that this movie would receive consideration would actually be legitimately depressing as opposed to the shallow feeling of dreariness it tries to create. If that was the goal all along then it is genius. Bravo! But honestly... nothing against the cast, but there are no Oscar worthy performances here. There is no best written screenplay here. And as for the biggest awards, did anyone really think this would be the Sci-Fi movie that pulled it off?)

If you do not know what Oscar Bait is, google it and read the wiki definition or even better read the one from TV Tropes (http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/OscarBait). Oscar Bait movies are the kind of movies that think being sad and depressing equals art. They try to appeal to the crowd that avoids films that are well liked in general. For them, a happy ending is cheesy, it's for the masses, it's less creative. Sad endings, they believe, are brave and smart and edgy and above all, more deserving of the word "art." In reality, this is of course complete garbage. A well written good ending takes just as much effort to create as a bad one.

Logan attempted to go "artsy" and "dark" and it felt shallow and clichéd. For me, the whole story was a very lazy way to explain why Hugh Jackman looks too old now and why Logan the character is no longer regenerating. It isn't original or ground breaking; it ripped off a movie that isn't even old, as if everyone would have forgotten that Children of Men existed, which I'm sure if I did some reading, would turn out to be not entirely original itself. I'm not about to say that films with sad endings are always like this. Some of my favorite films of all time have sad endings. Cuckoo's Nest, Aviator, Midnight Cowboy (though a little uplifting too), sometimes artists have a story to tell and those stories don't always end well for everyone involved. (side note, does anyone else but me think that Coming to America has the happiest ending of all time? Even Daryl finds happiness in the end, everyone wins! anyways..) So don't think that I'm biased against films that do go dark, I just want for them to be done well and with honesty. So what if comic books are what we read as kids in order to escape how awful reality really is and how rarely the good guy wins. So what if super-heroes exist because of how appealing the fantasies they create are and satisfying it is to envision a world where justice always prevails and nothing bad ever happens to good and innocent people. If you want to go dark and depressing do it! Just don't be lazy about it, put a little effort into it. Be sad if you want to just have an engaging and original story to tell.

Maybe they should have done to Wolverine what the franchise did to Cyclops. If you can't come up with something clever just kill him off-screen instead. I'm trying to figure out which death is more disrespectful to the source material and fans of the character. I'm also trying to figure out why the X-Men get so many chances after failing more times than not, while my Punisher gets screwed up one time and then gets banished to the small screen. ...

Well I guess my review ended up a little longer than I originally intended. Sorry I'm so wordy, I just don't get out much and when I do I'm usually pretty quiet so when I get the chance to speak or communicate I end up abusing it and I never know when to..... .. I'll attempt to make up for it, I'll make that fast (rant free) review now.... here goes....

SKIP TO HERE INSTEAD

Logan is Oscar Bait. It is lazy unoriginal garbage that takes itself way too seriously.