It made me vomit with rage.
After a tremendous buildup of advertising and reviews purchased by NewsCorp, The Simpsons Movie turns out to be nothing more than an 85 minute episode of late season Simpsons.

Just like these last few seasons, the movie is heartless and devoid of intelligent humor. It contains no thoughtful parody and only very trite satire. Many of the gags are childish even by Saturday morning cartoon standards. Slapstick and toilet humor cannot carry a prime time television show, much less a full length feature film. It contains no complex subtext, no (intelligent) obscure references, no hilarious musical numbers and no intricate visual humor. Many jokes are recycled from older episodes yet are very crudely put together (the similar looking family that is arrested, the Snow White spoof which is oddly similar to the much more well done Little Mermaid spoof years back, etc).

The characters are, at this point, gross caricatures of themselves 10 years ago. Homer, originally a dimwitted yet very caring father and husband, is now a brainless raging lunatic. Lisa, usually the voice of reason and compassion, has been reduced to an intellectual who never steps off her liberal soapbox. Bart, formerly the clever bad boy bad student with a hidden, kind heart has turned into mini-Homer, drinking problem included. Marge, a complex woman with a passion for maternity, has turned into a pitiful shell of a character, only raising her voice to nag. Other characters have either lost all complexity or just simply are not used. Even when these characters appear, they get less screen time than "Boob lady" or "Crazy cat lady" or "Spider pig" or "Irish musician kid" or "EPA Guy" (voiced by Albert Brooks, the same person who voiced a much more intriguing villain, Hank Scorpio). Some characters were even sacrificed in the name of cheap political humor (Reiner Wolfcastle).

The plot is a disgusting, twisted mess. The pig, an awful idea from the start, is quickly discarded. The tension between Homer and Bart and Homer and Marge is uninspired and forced (Marge taping over the wedding video was clearly a failed attempt to recapture the mood and emotional depth of a real Simpsons episode). The main plot, not to mention being unbelievably preachy, is recycled season 12-17 plots pieced together. I want to say that I could have written a better film but this is only partially correct; anyone could have written a better film. I'm sorry but I cannot remember many more details as I have mentally blocked out most of the movie to reduce the chances of permanent brain damage.