A good movie
If you help someone that is in need not only will that person benefit from it, but you will too. Rick fell madly in love with a woman named Ilsa. Ilsa broke Ricks' heart which made Rick change. When Rick arrived at Casablanca, he bought a bar and in almost every scene, he was drinking. The way I saw it was he was trying to drink his sorrows away. Rick mainly cared about himself and he said that he does not stick his neck out for anyone and he would not help anyone out if he would get in trouble for doing so. Rick would also not get close to anyone probably for fear of getting hurt again. Rick did not socialize with others unless it was business. When people in the bar would ask to have a drink with him, they were told no because Rick did not drink with anyone. However, that changed when Ilsa arrived and she asked to have a drink with him, he sat down and had a drink with Ilsa and her husband. When Ilsa came to his bar, Rick started breaking all of his rules. Rick stuck his neck out even when there was a great danger of him getting trouble and he was getting close to Ilsa again. The writing of this story shows that one person can change the way someone thinks, feels, and acts. This is a good example of a love story. Two men were madly in love with a women and one man had to let the women go because he thought it would be the right thing to do. At the end of the movie, the man let her go because he wanted her to be happy, even if it was not with him. If I were to write a love story, I would use this movie as an example because it shows that you can love someone and risk your life for them and they are with someone else. Rick was given a very valuable object at the beginning of the movie and that was some letters. The letters were very valuable and Ilsa wanted them. Ilsa wanted the papers for several reasons. First, they meant freedom from the Nazis and from Casablanca because the letters meant they could get enough money to leave to make it to America. Second, they meant mobility because they were worth enough money for Ilsa and her husband to get on the plane to leave Casablanca. Lastly, the meant a new life in America because they were able to get on the plane to leave. In a way, Rick was like the Nazis. The Nazis were very powerful people and Rick was a powerful man. The French police told Rick that Islas' husband, Lazlo, was not allowed to leave Casablanca and whoever helped him escape would be in a lot of trouble. Rick had power because he had the papers that Ilsa and her husband needed to leave Casablanca. The Nazis sent Lazlo to a concentration camp where he was not able to leave and Rick had the power to make Lazlo not leave Casablanca.

In the love stories I have seen, there is one person that sacrifices their happiness for the happiness of the person they love. Rick was still in love with Ilsa even though Ilsa was married to Lazlo. Rick could have made Isla and Lazlos' lives miserable by not helping them but, he wanted Ilsa to be happy so Rick helped them. Rick ended up losing his love again and risking everything he had and possibly his life. However, what Rick did for them made them happy.