The most loyal Matrix fan but.....
Someone has to say it. Not just anyone, but a Matrix fanatic. (deep breathe).This movie sucked. (lol) I thought it would rival L.O.T.R. That trilogy got better with every film. The matrix trilogy got worst. The original Matrix had me on the edge of my seat the whole time. When trinity jumped across the street I almost .(clearing throat) myself. When I saw that I was like, `oh yeah' , I knew right then I was going to love this film. And I was right. I truly believed and still believe no action film will ever top the original Matrix. NEVER!!

I remember walking out of the theater of the original Matrix thinking ` O.M.G. That was un-freakin-believable!' ( I became a matrix fanatic) Movie Theater visits - 5 times. I'm talking if I heard any negative comments I would defend this movie to the death. Then came Matrix Reloaded - my confidence in the Wachowski brothers was just a little shaken, but I still walked out thinking `O.M.G. That was un-freakin-believable! A little cartoonish. but still a great movie') - Movie Theater visits - 3 times. Then came the infamous Matrix Revolutions. (sigh) Where do I begin. How about Movie Theater visits - 1 time- and I almost asked for my money back. Enough said? I'll give them credit for the battle scenes but the script did nothing for me. I mean lets get real people exactly how long will this so-called peace between the humans and machines last? You actually think the machines are going to let humans build their societies back up and out-number them. I would give this peace treaty about a week, max! Before they try to exterminate the humans again. This movie created more questions than it answered. I just knew Revolutions would finally silence the critics. But when I walked out of the theater, all I could do was look at the ground and try not to make eye contact. So that no one would see the shame in my eyes. The 1st and 2nd installment you could always tell when the movie was over. The movie-goers would be talking as loud as they could while exiting the building and in the parking lot, praising the Wachowski brothers and the movie. After Revolutions ended it look more like a death march as the people quietly and I repeat quietly walked out to their cars. Most were probably like me. `What the hell was that?!'

Don't get my wrong. I will still defend the The Matrix and The Matrix Reloaded but I can't with good conscience defend Revolutions. And I know we are going to have those guys who will say that we aren't deep and we're not intelligent enough to see the meaning behind Revolutions. But I will put them in the same class as the art society. You know the type. They go to an art museum and see deep meaning in a blank picture. Yeah those types. (lol) Revolutions is a blank picture and trust me folks, there's no meaning behind it.

2/5 stars