a fabulous film that proved the dominant superhero films
After all the films leading to this one we were promised the Avengers on screen and this film gave us that big time. This film sees a group of big personalities having to come together and defeat a mad man and his army from enslaving humanity. One of the most important parts of the build up to this film was Robert Downey jnr's performance as Tony stark/iron man, and he is just as awesome in this film. His character grows in all these films but he is still the narcissist that we love. Also Chris Evans as captain America was really important as he is the leader and comes across as the moral compass of the whole film but he isn't boring which is great for the character. The rest of the performances are great as well, first of all is the recasting of Mark ruffalo as Bruce banner/hulk and he was the biggest surprise in this film. He was great in both roles and the hulk has absolutely never been better then this film. Chris Hemsworth is back as Thor and this guy is absolutely seriously movie star and makes this character a great character full of personality. Scarlett Johansson returns as black widow and she is sexy and tough while also proving that she is also the best female in these superhero films around. Samuel L Jackson is back as Nick fury and he is great as the character and squeezes the most he can out of this great character. The one member of the team that isn't really developed is Hawkeye, he isn't really himself for the most of the movie but even then the last battle he becomes great. What is important in a film like this is having a great villain and Tom hiddlestone as Loki definitely succeeds at that. He is just so fun to watch and you buy that he could pull off all this destruction. Sometimes simplicity is best for a story and this is one of those times, it has happened before that a group of combustible elements have to team up but this film gets the most out of it and adds real drama to the film. The script is the best part of the film and the dialogue between the characters is what makes this film so enjoyable to watch because it makes all the characters feel unique and there own personalities. The style of this film is great, the action is all enjoyable and the film looks great but I have to mention the show stealer that is the incredible hulk. This is the best interpretation of the hulk and he looks better then ever and he is possibly the best character in the film. Overall this is one of my favourite films ever and this is a comic book fans dream.