The great group Monty Python stands out in this often uproariously fun and hilarious classic movie
Delightful as well as hilarious satire about King Arthur and his knights embark on a low-budget search for the Grail, encountering many very silly obstacles . This is an imaginative , glamorous , chaotic fantasy based on a haunting journey carried out by King Arthur (early deceased Graham Chapman) and his botcher knights . Monty Python and the Holy Grail (1975) results to be a spectacular legendary tale filled with irony , slapstick , adventure and fantasy ; being efficiently directed by Terry Gilliam . Irreverent and often sidesplitting nonsense comedy/satire of Middle Age movies that will probably like to nutty humor fans , including many Political and Social comments . Both John Cleese and Terry Gilliam performed all their stunts during the duel between Black and Green Knight , they both had to learn to manage big and heavy swords and to do some acrobatics, though never being recognizable, wearing both heavy armors and full helmets . The French tactic of pelting Arthur and his knights with livestock echoes the relatively modern legend of a medieval siege of the fortified southern French town of Carcassonne ; said to have been near starvation, the townspeople used the last of their food to pelt the besieging army to convince them, suffering likewise, that the town was well stocked with food and that the siege was hopeless. Adequate production design , he interiors of Camelot and Swamp Castle, and exteriors of Castle Anthrax, French Castle and the opening castle were all shot at Doune Castle . Recently-rebuilt Castle Stalker was used for the Castle Aarrgg ; however the Scottish Department of the Environment withdrew permission for the Pythons to shoot within their castles, saying that the film's script would be "incompatible with the history and fabric" of the castles . The flick was imaginatively directed by Terry Gilliam , an expert on wonderful , surreal atmospheres such as Baron Munchausen , Twelve monkeys , Time bandits , Brazil , Fisher king , Jabberwocky and Heath Leger's last film : Doctor Parnasus . The film might be described as an extraordinary Medieval fantasy full of imagination and color . Six cast members played various characters such as Graham Chapman , John Cleese , Terry Gilliam , Eric Idle , Terry Jones and Michael Palin who plays the most characters , 12 . Though the movie has been directed by Terry Gilliam and Terry Jones , there were a lot of the frictions and conflicts . Lively and evocative Original Music , including jolly melodies . Colorful as well as evocative Cinematography . The motion picture was well directed by Terry Gilliam and Terry Jones . In 1965, with his friend Michael Palin, they made The Late Show (1966) for television, which was his first success and he wrote for many other TV shows . But Terry Gilliam' greatest success was the zany Monty Python's Flying Circus (1969-74) (with Palin, Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Jones and Eric Idle) and other hits such as Jabberwocky , The meaning of life , and especially Life of Brian and this Monty Python and the Holy Grail and this Life of Brian , among others . Rating : Good , better than average . Worthwhile watching .
