Delightful Simpsons-episode to the big screen
When a successful TV series is being transported to the big screen, there's always some expectations and worries lying ahead. Some of the big screen adaptations of a series works well ("South Park", "Ducktales", I can't remember others by now), others works terrible ("Hannah Montana"). Thankfully, "Simpsons The Movie" is not on the latter mentioned category!

Since it's already two years since this movie was released, I'll guess many have already seen it, so it's going to be unnecessary to tell the fans to not worry. But for those who haven't seen it; don't worry. "Simpsons The Movie" is a delightful and highly entertaining movie experience, series adaptation or not.

The movie is fresh, amusing and never gets boring during it's 87 minutes of screen time. It's also surprisingly funny, just as the funniest episodes used to be. It never feels odd or strange to see the characters in a movie situation, since one is used to see them during 21 minutes or so in a episode setting. Almost all the dear and familiar characters from the show are in the movie and their personalities are like you're used to see them. There are some few new touches, though, like the sweet and increasing relationship between Ned Flanders and Bart, Homer bonding to the Spider-Pig and Maggie being smart, which is nice to see.

The animation it self lives up to the standard of the series and it's bright, colorful and refreshing, despite there are some few and obvious CGI shots who stands out. The score is great and supports the movie, without being distractive. There are also some few cameos by Green Day and Arnold Schwarzenegger, which is fun to watch. The plot it self isn't so distinctive; like usual, there are some mistakes to make and lessons to learn by the characters, but the story still works pretty well.

Overall, I can't recommend "Simpsons The Movie" highly enough. It's a successful adaptation of one of the worlds best and funniest series and has the spirit of the show as well.

By the way; Get sure to not stop the movie before the end credits roll out.