Why?
Why? why? why? if this movie was so difficult to make than why did Snyder decide to take it on. Unlike many of the people in the united states, i have unfortunately never read watchmen, or even heard about it. I checked the rating out on IMDb and decided to see it. while i sat through these painful 2 hours and 40 minutes, i really didn't want to know anything about them or even hear about them again! how this movie ended up with a rating so high beats me!!! i'm sorry to all those people who say the negative comments are coming from people who haven't read the graphic novel, but a movie is a movie, it should stand alone, i'm supposed to understand mostly everything even without having read the book, otherwise the makers of the movie should have made the book a prerequisite to the film!!! there were just too many plots happening all at once, very very very long introduction, that i lost interest in all the characters long before intermission, and gave up on seeing anything that would impress me.

It did hit me at the end of the movie that this movie was made by the same people who made three hundred, and really the brutal and aggressive messages behind both movies disgust me. How many times does he have to ram the necessity of force or sacrifice for one party to gain what they believe is right. I guess my ideology differs greatly to Mr.Snyder, but killing people is never justified in my opinion. Asides form that the point of the movie was presented so shallowly, and it seemed like all the characters had very rash motivations that weren't justified.

the movie events and character choices just didn't make sense to me!! and the soundtrack that everyone says is fantastic, it really isn't due to fantastic directing, just great songs, for the likes of bob Dylan, Simon and Garfunkel, and Leonard Cohen, the songs will always sound great because they are, unfortunately what i don't like is how literal the movie is and how obvious it is in it's symbolism, the music was like a commentator on the action, that was rubbing it in our faces.

overall just not very subtle, entertaining, or enriching, i walked out of this movie as i did in 300, disappointed, agitated, and vowing never to see a Snyder film again. And i believe this one will have been my last.
