i love when...
"They round up movies like they do in this fairytail... because its a fairytail or story telling stone by stone it makes a mansion worth more than 1000 words.

And the makers of this canadian cold acadian winter fable has done a great job with the storytelling the plotting and especially the visuallization of the spoken word. It drags you hitherto and withertoo and youll never know what to expect and who takes the winning ticket. Because life is a mystery and storytelling while thawing up after travelling through a snow blizzard for hours in a , for the night, closed bar with just the attendant behind the bar the stories becomes grell and gives you coldblisters on your fingers cause its a spinechilling nasty thriller youre about to see, but still it walks so slow that you start thinking of self experienced freeze out stories.

And my worst freeze out story didnt happen in the winter, no it happened at the beach on the warmest day of july that year, me and my bro went freediving or snorkling for crabs wearing only speedoes, to set the dinner menu for the evening. Well with 17'c in the water its fun to play in the waves, and also set for some snorkling, but the currents west of karmøy island are strong and not to be relied on, and as the crabs stood lined up for us to grab like a golden nugget, the crab fever took overhand, till some 70 minutes out and my jaw started to twitch and that was the start of a shivering cold that i'll never forget. I took some 30 min to haul myself onto the beach and almost crushing my teeth for another 2 hours cluttering like an ak-47 in the baking hot sand and some 25'c in the air, it was just astonishing, and hasnt been repeated thereafter. If it hadnt been for the stamina and support from my bro i guess i would still be playing with the crabs. But a good solid freeze it was.

So if you like icecold stories from the unexpected do watch the oak room, the acting is solid, and they keep their card to their chests till they spread the ashes. A recommend from the grumpy old man."