I wanted to bail on this film on more than one occasion
Movie trailers are interesting. You as the viewer get to see a prospective film and be taken in by this 30 second or 60 second or even a two minutes and 30 second capsule of a two hour film. And when that time comes, you are sometimes rewarded fr your efforts and sometimes you are not. King Arthur had such promise with it's trailer and alas, it failed to live up to its promises. I went in expecting an action packed event but what I got was unnecessary expositions and a lot of unnecessary dialogue that bloated the film's running time. Let's assume we know the legend of King Arthur pulling the sword out of the stone. This version of King Arthur does that but with a twist, he passes out, not once, not twice but three times. This got tiresome the first time. When he grabs the sword out of the stone in front of the soldiers and the people, I was hoping for the first true action sequence to happen, sort of a medieval John Wick moment where he kicks ass sword style but that didn't happen. The film drags down and flat lines. 

At this stage, you become frustrated because now we get to hear from the evil king, played by Jude Law. In this role as the evil king, Jude Law throughout the entire film looks like he has a frozen fart face and he has to smell his stinky farts for eternity. But he talks incessantly just to hear himself drone on and on. And he isn't the only one. There are other men in this film that just talk too much for no other reason other than to bog down the flow of the film. I wanted to bail on this film on more than one occasion. It seems as if the writer wanted to inject some contemporary dynamics of what a well rounded 21st century man should feel like. He must be in touch with his feelings. Please, spare me. This is the medieval times. They were brutal and vicious in war. You get a tamped down version of the brutality. 

I've seen a lot of reviews on this film at this site and they give an inordinate number of positive reviews. I suspect that the film company who spent an estimated $175,000,000 on this film has hired film trolls to salt the reviews related to this movie. I can't believe the glowing responses this film has gotten because a lot of people didn't see this movie and this would be a statistically anomaly to have so many positive film reviews for a film that was marginal at best. I gave it a one star. Originally I was going to give it a three star review but after seeing these positive reviews, my suspicions came to the forefront. Like the old saying goes, if it looks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it's a film troll. Bottom line, they squandered a good retelling with way too much unnecessary exposition when it wasn't needed and the lack of action. Some good action comes at 1 hour and 21 minutes into this production. That's way too long. A film hero shouldn't be passing out three times before finally getting the hang of using a weapon. You'll lose the audience quicker than you think.