Didn't read the comic, wish Id never saw the movie...
The trailer made this movie look great! The actual movie was an absolute disgrace. It was too long, badly edited, acting and script like a bad soap and one weird, weird soundtrack...I will explain!

The plot and storyline jumped everywhere, it just didn't flow well at all. The story was poorly explained and I believe the director tried to fit too much comic into a film and ended up diluting the quality. It was as if bits of the comic book were thrown in for comic geeks sake only, not for the sake of a movie in its own right. The costumes, I know they are based on the comic, are ridiculous, actually comical rather than comic book. The Thunderbirds look cooler and more dangerous than these muppets. The characters are fat and out of shape, with exception of female lead, completely unbelievable, especially when they end up taking on a whole prison with extreme martial arts...The action was rare and poor also.

The soundtrack had some classic tunes but were so inappropriate, it was so random. The film is meant to be based in 1985, it has one scene in the Antartic whilst playing Jimmy Hendrix - All along the watch towers? A song from the 1960's that is synonymous with Vietnam ? It also had a nude sex scene, which are always good, but so inappropriate in this movie and played the Jeff Buckley version, I think, of Hallelujah... that got a good laugh out of the cinema.

One of the random scenes where two of the supposed heroes went on a vigilante spree, and ended up saving people from a fire, was hilarious. The female superhero jumped through a roof with fire and wood dropping everywhere, her hair was for a second everywhere, it instantly shot to her hair being salon perfect...so B movie! There is too much for me to slag off in this movie, people are obviously disillusioned by their nostalgia for the comic books, either that or the nudity...

The only positive things I could recall was the performance of the character 'Rorschach'. The only character that you actually felt anything for and he had one or two good scenes also. The special affects were not bad either but were wasted in this movie.

A few people walked out, I wanted to go but really thought it may redeem itself. It didn't redeem anything, it was terrible. This is the drivel that Hollywood is producing, I can only hope that Xmen Origins lives up to its spectacular trailer...
