A Haunting and Devastating View of Dementia
IN BRIEF: Great performances and sensitive direction create a haunting journey into dementia.JIM'S REVIEW: (HIGHLY RECOMMENDED) It's been a few days since I have seen Florian Zeller's brilliant film, The Father, and it still haunts me with its vivid depiction of the ravages of dementia. Other films have previously tackled this tragic disease very well. Amour, Still Alice, Away From Her, Iris, these exceptional films do come to mind, but no moviegoing experience will prepare you for this emotional free-fall.We witness Anthony's mental decline directly as we are transported to his ever-changing world. It is a jarring and disturbing view. Scenes are flipped and repeated by different characters. Actors trade roles and utter familiar dialog heard before. Items are lost or found and settings are slightly askew with changes in decor hinting at his mental disarray and anguish. As moviegoers, we cannot recognize the real from the surreal and the film accomplishes what no other film has done before...we become as dead to the real world, just as Anthony has, lost in a parallel universe and unable to find an easy escape. The emotional upheaval is palpable and moving.This is a great movie. French playwright Florian Zeller takes his play (with the assistance from Christopher Hampton) and adapts it for the screen in his glorious directorial debut and it's a stunner. His dialog captures the outrage and angst of a patient slowly being erased. Mr. Zeller's sensitive touches throughout the film indicate vast changes in Anthony's time frame (a misplaced fork, artwork that moves and shifts placement in the apartment, a whole kitchen redo, etc.).Production values are top-notch. Special kudos to Peter Francis' stylish production design and Ludovico Einaudi's brooding and lyrical music score which sets the perfect bittersweet tone. Yorgos Lamprinos removes all of the play's stagy theatrics from this adaptation with his concise editing and the lens of Ben Smithard lights and composes areas of the apartment with a sense of cluttered isolation with equal parts Edward Hopper or David Hockney.In the title role is Sir Anthony Hopkins and he is mesmerizing in his portrayal of a man unable to come to terms with his demise. He cajoles, bullies, and demands attention of those he loves. His final break-down scene is a masterclass in acting. This is a towering performance by an actor at his peak. The whole ensemble is splendid. Rufus Sewell, Imogen Poots, Mark Gatliss, and Olivia Williams shine in their transferable identities and add layers to the story, but it is Olivia Coleman as Anne, Anthony's sorrowful daughter, who impresses. The actress brings such deep nuance to her part. Her frightened glances, disoriented manner, and expressive line delivery is devastating. Mr. Hopkins and Ms. Coleman deserve every accolade this award season.Simply stated, The Father is one of the year's finest films. Do not miss this gripping movie.