The True King of the Celluloid Beasts - A Review of King Kong
It's been a very long since a film has left me with the same experiences of wondrous enthusiasm and awe like I felt when I Star Wars for the first time. Then I saw a screening of Peter Jackson's remake of the daddy of all action/adventures, King Kong.

In countless interviews, Jackson has said it was King Kong that inspired him to become a film maker. As a consequence, Jackson has approached his project with great affection and care. Everything that appears on the screen has been crafted with consummate skill by Jackson and his crew. Attention to the smallest detail is evident from the fully-fleshed out characterisations, the choreography of the action sequences to the incredibly life-like realisation of Kong himself.

The detailed sets, computer-generated landscapes and the wonderful score produced by James Newton Howard are ingredients which blend harmoniously together to heighten the mood of each and every scene.

Peter Jackson's version of King Kong is not only evidence of his love for the 1993 original and its subject matter. It is also triumph of film making and shows what a skillful director can achieve at the very peak of his game. The film deserves a position along side the Lord of the Rings trilogy as his best cinematic achievements to date.

Jackson also allows the visual effects to serve the story instead of engulfing it. Detailed sets and computer-generated landscapes create an atmosphere which serves to heighten the drama. Actor Andy Serkis and motion capture technology were used as tools in investing Kong with the ability to exhibit personality and realistic emotions and not just serve as a wow factor visual that jumps around trashing things. This allows for a much more realistic engagement between Kong and Ann Darrow (Naomi Watts) that certainly was not possible in the 1993 original.

Peter Jackson's version of King Kong is not only evidence of his love for the 1993 original and its subject matter. It is also triumph of film making and shows what a skillful director can achieve at the very peak of his game. The film deserves a position along side the Lord of the Rings trilogy as his best cinematic achievements to date.

If you count yourself among the minority that didn't catch King Kong at the cinema, then I highly recommend that you rent a copy out at your local video store because you will thoroughly enjoy it.