Indestructible grunting Rock 'em Sock 'em Robots

There are always hyped up "best movie ever" reviews, even for the worst of movies. Transformers2 and After Earth come to mind.

SPOILERS Krypton scenes straight out of Matrix (human pods), and Avatar (flying dragon), and Star Wars (weird shiny flying city lasers.. I was expecting a light saber any second).

Kryptonians have been exploring the stars, colonizing planets for 100,000 years only to stop recently... in ironic twist, the only two spacecraft are a prison ship for General Zod who tried to overthrow the government, and one only big enough for a baby. Oh and prison ship releases everybody when the home-world explodes - Seriously?

The beginning is OK. Young Clark is angry his father wont let him use his powers. But crucial character development missing. You don't see Clark smile, laugh, learn, or have any sense of what's on his mind, because he's a mindless frowning drifter.

General consensus on inter-webs has two categories of Man of Steel watchers: those who got super bored by beginning but gave 10/10 because of over 1 hr of non-stop punching and throwing through buildings, and those like me who watched in horror as your friendly neighborhood nice guy turns into the hulk smashing everything in sight.

People on Krypton are genetically engineered, and would be super strong if not for the poor air and faint sunlight on Krypton. Krypton had a archive of all DNA - the codex (no backups). Zod arives in giant spaceship and demands Kal-El (superman) to get Codex. USA military arrests Superman and hands him over to Zod. Superman bleeds from breathing poor air, but freed by Lois. Zod's invincible goons search Superman's baby ship for it, and fight him demolishing small town, killing plenty of soldiers. But Superman cracks helmet and gives them x- ray vision superpowers which they don't have Superman 33 years experience to control.

So, the aliens send down a terra-forming ship which stars destroying Metropolis and making air poor like Krypton's. In a "surprise" twist, it turns out the Codex is embedded in Superman's cells. Superman smashes the machine in 1 punch, and then starts 15 rounds of boxing with Zod (who got super powerful breathing Earth's air), smashing through building like Hulk, while military throws his baby spaceship into Zod's spaceship because it will cause blackhole. Finally, Superman gets really mad, strains like constipated and kills Zod... and flash forward Clark disguised with black glasses as reporter.

So, what's wrong? EVERYTHING - young Clark saves kids but watches hurricane engulf his dad - all the kids find out he has superpowers, all town's people when he's fighting Zod's goons, and Lois tells everybody Clark is a super alien, yet he disguides himself by putting on black glasses. - No backup to codex.. seriously? Why not take Superman's blood he bled. And why Earth.. you can terraform any planet. Heck, we have super air, why "pollute" it? - no "its bird, its plane, its superman"... nobody admires him - he is like Hulk smashing villains through cars and buildings - so what's the whole point of inspiration speech by his father about being hero. - how can Superman be a hero. Hero is sacrifice for others. What can he sacrifice when he's invincible... we never see a bruise or scratch. - why bother giving military orders to drop his baby spaceship into Zod's ship if he's super strong and can do it lickedy split. And two "warp drives" explode if they collide - so how did Krypton;s people explore the stars? - since when was Superman so bossy? - 0 romance. 0 comedy. Only iconic memorable lines are spoken by Rusell Crowe. Superman makes up for only 6-7 lines, with plenty of frowning, grunting and angry face.. is he Hulk constipated? is this Halloween? - Dark Knight, Avatar, Avengers, even all 3 Transformers had memorable lines, laughs, comradery and imaginative original atmosphere. This new Superman has nothing... there was nothing distinctive. Just same generic skyrise being smashed over and over like punching bag.

Honestly, the legions of people voting this movie as perfect speaks to the extent of the brain drain in this world.

Man of Steel is EXACTLY what's wrong with Hollywood. It is the absolute worst of all the superhero movies ever created.