Jackson hit the bullseye with this one.
I'm not a Lord of the Rings or Peter Jackson fan. I saw Return of the King and The Frighteners, but that's it. However, judging by how much of a adventurous and action packed film Return of the King was, I knew in my gut that he was the right man to remake the 1933 classic about a giant ape who falls in love with a human woman and breaks loose in New York.

Peter Jackson does a great job taking the material from the original King Kong and translating it perfectly into his remake. He takes the original hour and a half long movie and turns it into a 3 hour epic, and it's great. Seeing as he's wanted to make this film since he was 12, I'm really glad to see he didn't make a terrible film. The characters and the events are the same as they are in the '33 film, but Jackson adds a little extra spice to them. This movie is far more adventurous than the original, and it's a lot of fun. Every seen that Kong appears in, I didn't want to stop. I honestly could have sat through this film if it were four hours. It's all visually stunning as well. Everything is a real treat to look at. Also, I'd like to add that Andy Serkis, who did the movement work for Gollum in Lord of the Rings, did a great job as King Kong here.

The performances were really great to watch. I was kind of worried about Jack Black being in this movie, but after I saw him play the role, I was stunned. He pulled off his first dramatic role with no problems at all. He was perfect as an obsessed, eccentric film director. Naomi Watts, who's always good anyway, was awesome as Kong's love interest, Ann Darrow. Adrien Brody was the perfect male hero.

Now, even though I really didn't mind the 3 hour length, I could definitely see where some scenes could have been cut. The T-Rex fight was awesome, but it seemed to go on forever. They had a whole bunch of stunts being done by Kong and the T-Rex's, and it made the fight kind of tedious. I also think they humanized Kong too much. We have to realize that he's only an ape, and even though Ann may have been sympathetic, I don't think they should have had her as in love with him as they made her out to be. Some of the more tender scenes, like Kong and Ann watching the sunset, really seemed to drag.

Anyway, this is probably the best remake I've ever seen, and Peter Jackson pulled it off nicely after 32 years of waiting.