Unfortunate piece of cheap propaganda
The movie is clearly trying to present an alternative to the classic white male super-hero movies/characters. A very laudable idea, but the implementation is so bad that it has the opposite effect. Furthermore, it focus so much in the racial topic that at some points it is almost racist with continuous stereotypes about black people being in a given way. If the director would be a white person, I would sue him for some of the things in the movie (black people acting like monkeys, jokes of them eating people, etc.). In this sense, if someone is interested in good movies that present strong characters from African background I rather recommend "Hidden Figures", "The Pursuit of Happyness" (sic.).

That regarding the social topics that the movie was supposed to cover. But that's not all.

The scrip is rubbish. After 5 minutes, one can imagine exactly what is going to happen. Most dialogues are such, that one knows the next sentence before the actor/actress has opened his/her mouth. The script is filled with cheap emotional sentences that seem taken from some fortune cookie.

Most actors and actresses in the movie try to speak with some short of Nigerian/Kenyan accent and the outcome is ridiculous. The movie even managed to produce a ridiculous character played by Martin Freeman.

The special effects of the movie are rather disappointing. Specially after movies like "Avengers: Age of Ultron" and similar ones, I expected at least the minimum "Marvel" quality standards regarding special effects.

The soundtrack was also rather disappointing.

One good thing in the movie were some of the action scenes. The fighting choreographies are quite good. Also the car chases (surprise!) are pretty decent.

Another good point about the movie, is that if you happen to watch it with a funny group of friends then you might have "cheap jokes" for a month. In this sense (too), the movie falls into the category of Sharknado.

Watch at your own risk.