Among the Worst That Hollywood Has to Offer!
I wish there were a zero rating on IMDb. The movie industry ought to have a "Toxic Waste" rating, the kind that damages our society with absolutely no chance of cleanup. Yes, I believe that The Crow is the Love Canal of movies...

I can't believe this motion picture was directed by the same person who directed "Dark City." If I had seen The Crow (an earlier film) first, I would never have viewed Dark City, and that would have been a shame. The two don't belong on the same planet... They truly don't reside in the same universe. The only thing I can figure: The Crow came out of Hollywood, while Dark City came out of Australia.

Regardless of what Roger Ebert says about The Crow (he called it "good" ?), to me it is the worst piece of ultra-violent dreck I have ever seen, even including "Narc," the only other film I've rated a "1" here. Both richly deserve a complete zero. I detect a pattern here: Both films' stories take place in Detroit. Moral: Never watch any film whose setting is Detroit! The Crow is genuinely scary to me, but not in the way you might imagine. I think the horribly ultra-violent spirit of the film, completely unrelieved throughout (no matter the insipid, unbelievably saccharine "good guys win" ? ending) contributed directly to Brandon Lee's death. How else can you explain something as bizarre as a "blank" movie-prop round killing someone during the filming of a motion picture? It is obvious to me that so many (way-over-the-top many) "blank" shots had to be fired at the (so-called) "hero" that this must have contributed to Lee's death. Someone said this film is a fitting memorial to Lee. Indeed. No further comment required.

Even the music during the ending credits: "It Can't Rain All the Time," or whatever it's called, is nausea-producing garbage. The singer is horribly flat (pitch, that is). Just listen to it, if you dare; it is totally forgettable trash. Thank heavens it has been forgotten! I made the mistake of starting to play the comment track by the Producer and Screenwriter. I do wish English grammar allowed me to de-capitalize their titles. I think they are quite demented, totally out of touch with reality... I believe their warped view of the world has caused them to descend into the depths of self-aggrandizing insanity.

People: Do not view The Crow, ever. Unless you like flirting with brain-damaging toxic waste. If you let any teenager view this film, it should be considered that you should be jailed for launching sociopathic violence on the rest of us.

Thank Goodness I watched The Crow only once. I am hoping that Time Will Heal All Wounds.