Decent, but not as good as it looked
I wouldn't say I had REALLY high expectations for this film, however it did look entertaining from the previews, and I'd hoped it would be something I walked out thinking it was a real solid movie like The Losers or a Mission Impossible flick. I wouldn't say the movie was a disappointment. It was entertaining and it kept me engaged the whole time. But there were a few flaws that just kept this from being on par with a Mr & Mrs Smith kind of movie. In that movie, there was plenty of comedy, action, and just a sense of coolness that this didn't have. I'm not saying I wanted a repeat of Mr & Mrs Smith, I was just kind of looking forward to some cool action with comedy thrown in.

First of all, the chemistry between Cruise and Diaz just seemed forced. Cruise had this glazed over look the ENTIRE movie as if his character was just a beaten puppy going through the motions of a spy. In the Mission Impossible movies, I felt like he was actually a spy and he had a lot of emotion. But I just couldn't get past the vacant look in his eyes the whole time. His age is starting to show a little in his face and like he's desperately trying to hold on to the younger action roles he used to play. This translates into the chemistry between him and Cameron Diaz's character. I'm not sure I can even describe it, but there was just something missing in Cruise's performance that made him seem so distant. Maybe it was some sort of confidence....I think that might be it. His character seemed to lack that bad@$$ confidence we expect from our cool spies. It was like "OK...I'm awesome. Sigh...but who cares. Guess I'll kill this guy."

The second thing that bugged me was how much was given away in the trailer that sucked the life out of the movie. There were some pretty decent action scenes, but they were almost all shown in the previews. I hate when films do that, but I know they gotta suck people in first and foremost with the eye candy. Along with that complaint, I gotta mention that the CGI was a little weak. Some chase scenes were just a bit too easy to peg as blue screen shots.

Those pickings aside, it was a enjoyable watch that will suffice as a average to slightly above average action/(barely)comedy/ date movie. There's definitely a few movies I would put above this one on the must sees for the summer before devoting your money to this. But it's probably worth a matinée.