Great Start to the Dark Universe
The Mummy was a lot better than I was expecting. It was about WHAT I was expecting, which is good, and didn't really feel like it was doing nothing but universe-building. There was a bit of that, but they did focus mostly on the Mummy, Nick Morton (Tom Cruise) and Jenny Halsey (Annabelle Wallis).

This was your basic Mummy story, though they gave enough of a different background to Ahmanet to at least PARTIALLY distinguish her from previous Mummies. She was going to become the most powerful princess in the world until her father knocked up his new wife who bore him a son. Ahmanet was not going to have any of that, so she killed everyone. She sold her soul to Set, who promised to make her a Queen in exchange for giving him a physical form. Her father's soldiers capture her and mummify her alive.

Skip to present day where Nick Morton is looking to make some money by breaking into a tomb on a map he stole from Jenny. She catches up to him just after he finds the tomb, and they explore it together. They find Ahmanet's tomb and accidentally revive her. Ahmanet decides Nick will be her new Chosen One--the new body for Set--and that brings Nick to the attention of Prodigium, a group dedicated to studying and destroying monsters.

The cast of the Mummy was very good. Tom Cruise was still Tom Cruise, but as he manages to do in all his movies, he manages to sell it very well. Annabelle Wallis played a decent Jenny Halsey, and while I think she COULD have been a little bit stronger in her role, she was not a weak, wilting wallflower. She kicked as much butt as Tom Cruise did. But the real joy of this movie was Sofia Boutella as Ahmanet, a role she almost seemed born to play. She played sexy well, and she played psychotic well, and the people in charge of makeup turned her into a really excellent Mummy.

The Mummy was also a beautiful movie. They did not overdo the cinematography, keeping it very grounded, but they didn't make anything unnecessarily dark just because. The special effects were great, and they did not do anything unnecessary. probably the biggest CGI scene was a scene in London that lasted maybe five minutes. And there was NO CGI-heavy ending fight like has been happening in movies a lot lately. They seemed to try to keep CGI out as much as they could, which was very refreshing. They still used it, don't get me wrong, but it didn't seem to be EVERYWHERE. The movie moved along at a brisk pace, didn't drag anywhere, and the sets and costumes were fabulous.

I was very happy with the Mummy. I didn't expect a lot, so I was pleasantly surprised with what I got. Not everyone is going to like it, though, but I'm a big Universal Monster fan, and I can't wait to see what they do with their upcoming movies. I just hope there are upcoming movies considering the bad reviews this movie is getting, which it really does not deserve.