Amsterdam is not just coffee shops anymore, now there are zombies there too...
Anything that just remotely smells like zombie and I will watch it. And I happened to fall over "Zombibi" (or "Kill Zombie!" as it was oddly enough labeled on the DVD cover) on Amazon and had to put my decaying fingers on it. And with good reason, because "Zombibi" turned out to be quite good and loads of fun actually.Mind you that this is a Dutch movie, but you shouldn't be discouraged by that fact. The zombies don't seem to mind, why should you? A satellite crashes in downtown Amsterdam, bringing with it some kind of unidentified green slime which turns people into raging zombies with a hunger for flesh. Aziz who has just been fired from his work end up in prison with his brother and two other criminals when havoc falls upon Amsterdam from outer space. Waking up the next morning, the entire city is turned upside down. Amidst the chaos, Aziz gets a distress call from the woman he fancies, and he have to head back to his former workplace to save her, but the road there is perilous and full of obstacles."Zombibi" is fast paced and has a marvelous mix of comedy and horror put together and it works out quite well. Sure, it is not "Shaun of the Dead" material, but still, it is quite good. The movie will have you laughing and cheering, and for us zombie fans, there will be some nice enough gore moments too.The characters in "Zombibi" are so stereotypical that it just makes you laugh because it is so outrageous. And it works out well that it is done this way, bringing some self-irony to the movie. And the people they cast for the roles were doing great jobs. I have only seen one or two other Dutch movies prior to this one, so I can't claim to be familiar with anyone in the movie, so all new faces that have no prior roles attached to them was quite good.I can warmly recommend "Zombibi" to you, especially if you like zombie movies that is spiced up with comedy. It is a good jab at the zombie genre to come out of the Netherlands.