Not as atrocious as it's made out to be, but bad for sure...
The only reason I wanted to watch this film was that it got no less than 9 nominations for the 2007 Razzies, including 3 for Lindsay Lohan alone. I figured that only a really, really bad film could achieve this and, since I love laughing at lame movies as much as the next guy, I immediately tracked down this movie to watch it and have a good time laughing at how bad it would be.

Now, the first thing I want to say about "I Know Who Killed Me" is this: if this movie is, as many viewers say, "the worst film they've ever seen", clearly, these people have not seen much. On the top of my head, I can think of a dozen movies that are absolutely atrocious and way, way worse than this Lindsay Lohan vehicle. While I love reading "extreme" movie reviews posted by angry reviewers, you have to be honest at some point. "I Know Who Killed Me" is not "unwatchable" in any way.

With that said, I'm not going to defend this movie and say it's great. It is not. It is bad.

The problem is that there are two types of bad movies. You have "the so-bad they're funny" bad movies (which are entertaining), and you have the "bad, just bad" films (which are unfunny and boring). Unfortunately, "I Know Who Killed Me" falls into the latter category.

Sometimes, you know right from the first scenes that a movie is going to suck. That was the case for "Basic Instinct 2" (which incidentally won the Razzie of Worst Movie in 2006). Right from the opening, with Sharon Stone driving the sports car straight into the river, you knew that what would follow would be dreadful. The same thing happens here. In the first ten minutes, I was struck by how all the actors were so awkward and unable to portray anything correctly. The actors playing the cops took the cake: I've hardly ever seen cop characters played so badly and unconvincingly.

And then, the plot starts, so to speak. At first, the premise seems just as interesting as any: pampered girl gets kidnapped and tortured by a serial killer, then mysteriously reappears but claims she's a different person. Sounds intriguing enough, the sort of stuff David Lynch could use. But everything falls apart in no time. The whole thing turns out to be yet another story based on paranormal tripe, and a very boring one at that. The writer has no idea about what makes a good story, character or situation; his script is ridden with clichés, plot holes, and cop-outs. Random example: as if the whole "stigmatic twins" stuff was not far-fetched enough, near the end of the movie, Dakota suddenly has an epiphany (convenient, isn't it?) that gives her all the information she needs to find the killer. Sure, why bother with rational stuff, just make the character have an epiphany and the job is done! Everything in that script is just botched and lazy.

The whole thing is certainly not helped by the weak cast and the clumsy direction of Chris Sivertson whose great idea here is to add unsubtle references to the colour blue all the time while giving a "clipesque" look to the extended torture scenes.

Now, about Lindsay Lohan. She's the only person who shows some involvement. She's no Scarlet Johansson, or Kirsten Dunst, but at least she tries. The problem is that her acting skills are too limited to handle the good girl/bad girl thing on screen. And the material she's given, whether it's the script or direction, is way too poor for her to salvage anything. The stripping scenes (in which she doesn't even remove her bra, let's applaud the writer again for realism) are totally ugly and un-sexy. The sex scene where she goes at it with her sister's boyfriend seems to come right from the next American Pie movie. Everything is like this but it's not entirely Lohan's fault. She looks competent in some scenes. And she's the only reason why you'd want to sit through this bore until the killer's identity is revealed and the movie ends (at last).

That pretty much sums it up. "I Know Who Killed Me" is clearly straight-to-DVD material that only got released in theatres because Lohan was in it. But again, despite being awfully boring and flawed, it's not the sheer atrocity some claim it is. You'll see much much worse than this (Jaws The Revenge, anyone?). "I Know Who Killed me" is just a boring, not-bad-enough-to-be-funny film among thousands of its siblings.