Pack up the Car, follow Route 17 to Kellerman's
!963 The height of the Borscht Belt, the Catskills . A mountain range in upstate New York when Hotels, motels and bungalow colonies sprung up up like dandy lions in an abandoned field. Some say the Idea or origins of the Catskills region was the location and natural setting just a couple of hours away from New York and Philadelphia areas where Jewish families could relax for a couple of weeks at affordable prices. In the 1930's and 40's Jews were denied vacancies in other hotels do to anti antisemitism. Jewish oriented luxury hotels, Motels, Bungalow colonies and Sleep-away camps of every description accommodated Jewish clientele in every price range. This made for a quick fix to rejuvenate the senses before the fall season/ school commences. Enough with the History lesson. On with the review. It's 1963 The Kennedy's lived in the White House and Rock and Roll filled the air waves with the sounds of WABC and Bruce Morrow at the mic, known as a DJ (Disc Jockey), who talked between songs . Song artists the likes of Jan & Dean, The Four Seasons, The Beach Boys and Lesley Gore performing as the teenage multitude tried to master the latest dance steps such as the FREDDIE or the FRUG or maybe the MASH POTATO or the SHIMMY? This brings us full circle to our story of loyalty, trust and for a lack of a better word, judgement. Dr. Houseman (Jerry Orhbach) and his Family arrive at Kellerman's resort in the heart of the Catskill Mountains . Along with Mrs. Houseman (Kelly Bishop) and their two Teenage daughters Lisa (Jane Brucker) and our centerpiece of this story Frances ,AKA," Baby" Houseman. The family settles in on this country setting at Kellerman's Resort run by the chubby, lispy Max Kellerman played by character actor deluxe Jack Weston. Max Boasts about his Danish being pure protein as he assembles the patrons for the daily routine of dancing lessons during the day light hours. The help or dance instructors are basically teenagers or of college years. One stand out is the tall auburn haired, beady eyed Johnny Castle (Patrick Swayze). Baby is curious about the crowd beyond the main bungalows and is taken by Johnny Castle. Although Johnny comes from a humble background Baby is taken by his charm and elegance as Johnny regular partner Penny (Cynthia Rhodes) is pregnant and to complicate things further has an abortion. that renders her bed ridden and infected. Baby takes her place and practices as Johnny and Baby become a dance team working side performances at competing Hotels unbeknownst to her doting Father. Johnny and Baby are trying to master the famous swan catch. Diversions of infidelity and false accusations thicken as Dr. Houseman and Max Kellerman accuse Johnny of wrong doing. Fine performances by the obnoxious full of himself Neil Kellerman (Lonny Price),the Bosses son and the insidious, philandering Robbie the bus boy, (Max Cantor) add to this piece of Borscht Belt nostalgia. This Movie strikes a distant cord with me as I fall into a trance of past experiences going to the mountains with my parents. Homowack Lodge and Davos ski resort bring back a ton of wonderful memories. Just a bygone era captured on film. The success of this film is how the story captures the atmosphere of bungalow life. Moreover,what it was like to experience a day in the.: as my BUBY would say: "Day in the mountains!" And to quote our proprietor Max Kellerman, "So lets join in in one last chorus, visitors, staff and guests. What we've shared won't be forgotten, old friends are the best!