Expectedly B-grade
The only reason I even bothered with this, even though I knew that I wouldn't like it, is Jennifer Garner, whom I think is totally, totally, totally hot. Too bad for her: she deserved a much better script.

Elektra has its share of gripping moments, but on the whole, it was awfully silly. First of all - and this really irks me - they shamefully got a Korean actor to play a Japanese. How many times must Hollywood commit this kind of stupidity before they realise that the different Asian race aren't substitutes for each other? (Admittedly, the Korean actor is hot, but that is not the point.) Secondly, Elektra boasted some of the worst special effects I've ever seen; they looked like something out of a computer game or a low-budget, locally-produced gongfu television series. The constant usage of slow motion went heavily into overkill territory, such that some of such moments became so cheesy that they completely lost their credibility and the semblance to depth and meaning the film-makers were obviously aiming for (an example would be the fight scene between Elektra and the pseudo-Japanese dude with the sword).

Thirdly, the plot, or what was supposed to be the plot. I'll just say this plainly: What the hell was that? The ending left much to be desired; not only was it extremely anti-climatic and "that's it?"-inducing, it was also blatantly obvious that the people behind it were already gearing themselves up for a sequel. Questions which you'd expect the movie to answer upon its conclusion were hardly dealt with, hence cheating the audience out of a holistic cinematic experience. Save for Elektra, there was also a grave lack of character development. The only reason I cared about Mark whateverhisnameis was because it's Goran Visnjic, who is deliciously gorgeous; other than that, I couldn't care any less about the other characters.

The plus points: Elektra was halfway understood and Jennifer Garner portrayed her nuances with tremendous efficacy. And then there's Goran Visnjic, who is - have I mentioned this? - deliciously gorgeous; hence, it's too bad that he had such little screen time. I believe I would have enjoyed the movie a lot more if there was more of him. In addition, Elektra was marginally better than Daredevil, which was the most boring and pointless action movie I've seen in quite a while. And one last plus point: Elektra did not have the insufferable Ben Affleck. That's a cause for cheer and celebration, whatever the occasion.

See this only if you like Jennifer Garner and Goran Visnjic.