The Ultimate Pink Floyd DVD!
I give this DVD an 8 out of 10.  I give the film itself a  7.   The DVD adheres to Pink Floyd's standards,  very creative and thorough. One of the best features is an off-the-cuff commentary by Roger Waters and Gerald Scarfe,  who are obviously good friends.  Being an ardent Pink Floyd fan all my life,  there are poignant bits of Waters' personal history discussed in relation to the semi-autobiographical film.  For instance,  I never really knew that most of the album `Wish you were here' was about Water's loss of his friend and former band-mate Syd Barrett.  Waters also starts joking during a scene where Bob Geldof is up against the large brick wall in the film,  eluding to the IRA.   The film itself looks great,  with `the Wall' soundtrack,  mostly remixed and re-recorded for the film, providing a great aural experience.   There are 2 documentaries,  one produced around the time it was made,  and a recent retrospect.  These also provide insight into the concepts and execution of the film.  Also featured is the deleted `Hey You',  which was cut from the film to move the story along,  despite it being one of the more popular songs from the album. Scarfe's striking artwork and movie stills are also included.   The film itself really is like an extended music video.  The imagery eludes to Water's childhood,  complimented by psychotic animation produced by Scarfe.   It also falls victim to some of the trappings of an MTV video. Such as a hall full of skinheads doing dance moves (hokey!),  or major characters in weird makeup looking into the camera.  The main themes repeat themselves throughout the film,  mainly because the music itself wallows in it's loneliness.  I saw this film 3 times when it came out while I was in high school.  After watching it again about 18 years later,  I realise that I should be aware of the materialistic aspect of barricading yourself behind the wall of toys available these days, (`13 channels of sh*t' now is 123 channels of sh*t).  With things like the internet,  we are increasingly living virtual lives instead of real ones.