Over Hyped
This has to be one of the most over-hyped movies of all time, a veritable 'King Kong' of a movie deflated to Bubbles the chimp stature with its wooden acting, naff sequences, contrived plot and extreme length. As the saying goes 'its not how big you are but how you use it!" Unfortunately Mr. Jackson feels the need to release onto us the Bigger, Longer and Uncut version from the get go.

To wade into this movie is to find yourself in a jungle but in the end having sifted through everything all you get is a monkey-nut. To begin with its one basic flaw is that its too long by far, over an hour too long. Jackson feels the need to show us all Ann Darrows workmates at the theatre one by one. He develops them to a point where you're thinking they're going to be integral to the story and then he swiftly moves, he does it with the crew of Venture. Lots of scenes with them, pointless in the end especially when they die, they just seem like cannon fodder for our amusement. There is just too much of everything in King Kong. Too many characters to begin with, too many natives, too many monsters, Kong fights off not one, not two, but three t-rex's at the same time. Denham and Driscoll are not attacked by one or two big bugs, but a gazillion of them. At this point I was shaking my fist at the screen Its as if Jackson sat in a suite at Weta, like a kid in a candy store and said, I'll have two those, ten of those, seven of those and twelve of those etc etc. Too much, quality not quantity Mr. Jackson. There are some cringe worthy moments too, especially in the dinosaur chase scene, with Adrien Brody punching, yes punching a Velociraptor (Steven must be laughing extremely loudly) in the face all the while not trying to get stamped on by some brontosaurus , gimme a break.

The scenes between Ann and Kong begin funny, but turn stupid as Jackson has some how turned the beast of Kong into a docile and almost human like character, I was half expecting the pair to get down to some frantic love-making by the end of it, cringe, cringe cringe.

I could go on and on and on, oh I could, but the most glaring contrivance occurs at the very beginning when we are cheated out of an explanation. Denham played by Jack Black is trying to convince his film financiers to give him more money, but having seen his rushes they're not convinced. However, Denham pulls from his pocket a map no less, of Skull Island, a map nobody else has, annnnnd thats it. No back-story, no 'where did he get that map' no dodgy Asian guy in a pawn shop, no mystic Mr. Miagi, no cults, no Nazis, no nothing. Denham just has the map, the map on which the whole movie rests, a poor downtrodden director has this map, where did he get it!!!!!! Is that to be saved for King Kong 2: Son of Kong, I guess so, but I'll be in no rush to see that, but I was in a rush to leave the theatre to avoid the 17, yes SEVENTEEN minute end credits.