Psychological cages
The New Mutants (2020) Dir. Josh Boone. Taking as a common thread the Cherokee legend of the two internal wolves (in this case, bears) that represent the conflict of antagonistic internal forces in each individual, 'The New Mutants', takes us into the fierce inner battles that five cloistered youths wage in a kind of psychiatric hospital trying to make their dark side visible and face it to find a balance between who they are and the individual powers that segregate them and make them different from others. I understand that negative comments are emerging around the new Marvel proposal: The New Mutants is completely different from the tone that has characterized that universe and that of the X-Men in particular. From the fusion of action and thriller that predominated in the two previous stages of the mutants, we have a new beginning that bets on psychological terror. A walk through the dark corners of the psyche. The five are in charge of a doctor who, in addition to the daily group sessions, monitors them day and night, in an obsessive exercise of auscultation, completely denying them any vestige of privacy. Located in the middle of nowhere and with an insurmountable energy field surrounding the facilities, they are totally isolated. They only have themselves. Marvel enthusiasts will be somewhat baffled by a new narrative treatment that bets on examining the deep fears of these new mutants, leaving behind the eye-catching of long action sequences and special effects, focusing on the psychological cages that keep them as social outcasts by not knowing how to handle with care their personality and the powers that they involuntarily possess. Personally, I like the 180 ° turn in the narrative nuances with a gloomy and claustrophobic atmosphere that permeates the interaction of the mutants and leads you to sympathize with them because of the oppression they suffer. The characters, in general, are well chiseled leaving unknowns that, I suppose, will be cleared up in future installments. Now I understand why there were reshoots and several postponements of its premiere. Marvel being now owned by Disney, it is a film at times, too dark that bursts into narrative territories and tonal scales that Disney is not used to traveling.