The Linklater Version
The Linklater Version

This seemingly cute film is built around the ebbs and flows of attachment and detachment over twelve years in a boy's life (and a girl's also). Mason's mother teaches college courses on that subject, as does one of his abusive stepfathers. Despite all the missteps that everyone makes, Mason does grow up, not unscathed. This is, superficially, a feel-good "everyboy's tale."

But that's a masquerade. Every character, every relationship between mother and child, child and mother, parent and parent, adult and adult, every conversation, and every heart-to-heart talk is a wincing platitude, one we've all heard thousands of times. The entire 165-minute film is built around these platitudes—about neatness, eating, dressing, studying, dating, screwing, graduating, driving, and any other topic you can imagine.

Linklater has compiled the encyclopedia of clichéd talk. It's of course what most of us do, and it's stultifying to see it on the big screen. Even Mason's teenage photographs are platitudes—a rusty fire hydrant, a lonely traffic light, etc. Ditto for the sewer repair guy whom Mom advises, "you're smart, you should get an education." And when Mom runs into him later, managing a restaurant, he thanks her, "you changed my life." Of course. By that point in a film that is the Moby Dick of platitudes, it's just what you'd expect him to say.

No wonder I squirmed during the film and was depressed when I left the theater. Is this junk what it's about? At one point, Linklater has Mom more or less summarize her own life as one long cliché: you live, you love, you lose, you die. And he even has Mason deliver a lecture en route to college on how humans are half robots and how our lives are captured and controlled from without (hello, NSA), leaving us slaves. It's that inevitable template of life that Linklater is really presenting. Life is a track.

This cynicism shouldn't come as a surprise. It was precisely what Linklater did in Before Midnight, which is 109 minutes of a spite marriage that had started, as we know from two previous films, as a charming Parisian romance. There too Linklater worked around a cliché, of a marriage gone sour. Jesse wants to do what he wants, and Celine delivers one vicious feminist broadside after another (a terrible disservice to feminism). The film was his homage to Godard's Contempt. Boyhood is his Texas version of Truffaut's Antoine Doinel series, with a dash of Godard's Le Gai Savoir.

After Boyhood, we should all banish platitudes from our mental bank. I'm taking an oath to be as original as I can be in what I say to myself and to those I'm close to. And I'm putting everyone I know on notice to catch me, nicely, when I veer into cliché.